whenever a young 21-year-old boy or girl
wants to know what makes startup
Founders people like yourself successful
they get generic we don't want to know
what you've said already so intent here
was to ask you non-usual
[Music]
questions
okay guys
welcome uh all three of you thank you
guys for coming pleasure the very first
thing we do when we call people is we
try to get to know them in a manner that
even they haven't spoken online or it's
not available so we don't want to know
any of the stuff you're all popular
people you've done
interviews uh we don't want to know what
You' have said already so we'll try and
nudge it in a direction uh which will
help us learn a bit more about you and
uh for the point of this
show uh there's no drama there's no like
uh you know trying to get a reaction out
of anyone it's very much focused on a
20-year-old boy or girl and when they
are starting off
uh what can they learn from the
learnings you've had without any filters
uh we did a venture capital episode and
we came to the conclusion that 90 95% of
startups fail you three have succeeded
and you must have done something
differently and today is about finding
out what that could be and how other
people can learn from it so maybe we can
start with kzle tell us about your life
from the very beginning
from childhood all of that and take as
much time and what others don't know yet
yes what others don't know I I think
others don't know a lot about um how
confused and how um I would say I was
still figuring it out for the longest
period of time until eventually of
course people started believing that
this is the definition of success and
that's for others right um so I come
from a humble middle class family I was
born and brought up in chandigar uh up
till my marriage chandigar was the only
place that I had stayed in because the
background that my parents come from or
I have come from uh they're not they
were not very Pro sending women out for
jobs or working so that's that's the uh
you know the childhood that I've
experienced I was probably the first
women in my family to go out and work uh
but the only difference between the rest
of my family and my parents was um the
conviction that both my parents had to
ensure that our kids are going to be
independent in life was this in
chandigar in chandigar itself so like I
said up till my marriage chandigar was
my geographical a very pretty geography
beautiful it's called the city beautiful
right I love that place I think till
today that's my favorite City uh but
while I was growing up that wasn't the
case because I I saw potential outside
the city but was not sort of allowed to
explore it I was told that within this 5
kilomet of radius whatever you want to
do feel free to do it feel free to pick
it up um so that's how my um you know
what did your parents do so my father um
continues to be a businessman um very
interesting story I think first lessons
in entrepreneurship is um I learned from
him when I was in standard 8th um so big
joint family uh my father is three
brothers and Five Sisters so eight kids
in total uh grew up with a lot of love
um but eventually realized that a
business that was being run by Brothers
when the parents were no long their
parents my grandparents were no longer
there um there was certain friction that
started coming in and there was a unfair
distribution of wealth that happens
everywhere no all the time I I it does
there are a lot of stories I experienced
it for the first time and with my own
father uh I think even at that point of
time I couldn't imagine how can your own
real you know blood do this to you it
was it was very complicated and my
father I've seen him trust his brother
like like elder brother he used to
consider him his father because he
wasn't there and uh that trust getting
broken was like an eye opener for me my
first experience into any kind of
relation ship and how uh it has such a
strong impact on who you are or your own
ability or or the like you being able to
trust anyone else after that what age
were you when uh your father and his
brothers thing happen I was in standard
8 so I think 12 13 13 14 years whatever
that is yeah I have a theory okay I feel
like great entrepreneurs such as
yourself when are asked the question why
you successful often give the
very generic rehearse thing that is
common to everybody but I feel like it's
not because somebody's trying to lie but
we don't realize ourselves what
insecurities we have deep inside which
pushed us to do a certain thing yes
hence a little unusual background
absolutely so for that matter over the
years and this is very recent last two
to three years what I've realized
is the reason for my success is not
because of anything that I've done in
the last 5 to seven years of building
the business it actually goes back to my
childhood and the way my attitude got
shaped because of different events that
happened and the perspective towards
looking at some of those beat problems
beat circumstances beat the attitude of
how do you take a decision has shaped
because of certain incidents which have
happened which I might not have liked
back then when I was going through them
but truly have shaped me to be the
person that I am so what changed in you
guzzled the person were you a good
student age 12 I was always a very good
student for that matter till grade 10 I
was amongst the top five in my class I
was the sports captain and I was also
the best artist in the entire school
okay so the overachieving allrounder
overachieving guzzle at age 12 young
girl going to a school in
chandigar watches her father father and
her brothers his brothers go through a
difficult time what changed in you pre
and post that
event I think one thing that I realized
for the first time in my life was the
helplessness that I had in that
situation helplessness around money
right helplessness around comforting my
father money didn't come into the
picture then because it took a while for
me to realized that okay now money is
also a
problem did your lifestyle change yes it
did
because um what he got was under a lot
of debt and we had to sort of as a
family take care of that um and when
suddenly because it was an unexpected
event in his life right he he broke down
and I saw him breaking down for the
first time a very confident funloving
person that he was I saw him getting
very quiet not talking to people not
going out and I I I could feel that he's
going into depression right what I also
saw saw at that point of time was the
power that my mother had to correct the
situations and she had been a housewife
all through her life um it was beautiful
um she pulled out all her gold
saving sold it brought in some money
helped Papa put inventory back into the
shot into the shop what was business so
he was into accessories of all of these
cars and trucks like that entire
business I still don't know how to call
it out yeah yeah all of that right I
still don't know how to how to
accurately describe the business um but
that's what my brother still continues
to do by the
way uh but he was into that but um the
division happened in a way that the shop
that he got was under a lot of debt
there were a lot of like uh receivables
that had to be recovered from the market
and we knew that was like a dead money
already he knew that it was a dead money
it was not going to come and how much
debt to attribute a number to it I think
it would be anywhere between 40 to 50
lakhs back then that was a big amount
like it it crumbled the versus income of
four five LHS a year I don't think
you'll be able to versus an income of
around a lakh a month right yeah so that
was the kind of debt that we were
looking at and he could clearly see for
the next 4 5 years this is not going to
come in and for me to put an inventory I
don't have anything left so what do I do
and with a little bit of money that like
the fact that a housewife can actually
stand up and contribute to situations
like this was again a first for me
because mama is always sitting at home
she's the caretaker so my um you know
the belief that you you as a woman do
have the ability to change things around
because I hadn't seen anything like that
in my family ever before came from her
that source of inspiration came from her
and I think that incident of course of
course after that things started getting
better slowly and steadily it took us
almost 5 years to come out of that uh
debt to start making money um but the
conversations that I had with my father
during those five years were beautiful I
think the first lesson that he told me
was B Money only comes home when the
business makes profit that was my first
lesson ever that if any business if it's
not making profit the money doesn't come
home it it might be gener Revenue but
that keeps getting you know there's a
cycle that is that exists in the
business and it keeps rotating um I also
saw uh my mom step up by taking tutions
for smaller kids trying to help the
family and I saw how they both
beautifully came together and that was
another lesson that I learned in
relationship building of how to be more
like your mother or your
father H very interesting
I think I want to be more like my
mother uh the courage that the that she
showed in that situation uh when when
Papa was breaking down um and the will
that she had that this is not going to
define the rest of our lives and we are
going to turn it around is the
confidence that I still hold in myself I
always refer back to that incident and I
whenever things are tough I'm like we
will turn it around this doesn't Define
okay uh who we are going to be and then
after
30 yeah so after that continue to grow I
think um value of money is what we
realized then importance of money and
how do you spend it and how do you so
there was a fixed budget in which you
had to manage the house all of all of
those learning started coming in during
that time um as a student I was doing
well in school um plus one plus two so
good in maths good in science doing well
Mama had this dream that because it was
a trend back then to be an engineer
right take up engineering and do that so
good in Ms and science you're going to
become an engineer and like you're like
okay you don't know what's in store and
is that when you left chandigar I didn't
leave chandigar even then okay it goes
on with me for the longest period of My
Life um I took uh non-medical as
subjects um and I was also under this
impression that you know everybody used
to say that
10th then you have some time free to
yourselves and I took it very seriously
see that's a lie that everybody's
told for Life 10 12th for undergrad it's
a never ending thing R get your first
job get the promotion get married have
children get your first
house so after the 10th you were still
like grade a student till 10th after
that then life changed for me completely
I took that after that you can relax but
seriously did you come to terms with the
fact that you're good-looking after
10th oh no no that's another story life
changed how good looking to I picture
like where where's
that
old why I say that's a completely
different story because again for the
longest period of time I thought I was
the most horrible looking girl that
could exist
especially wow till grade 12 okay um
reason being you had bad self-image till
great well uh just on the beauty side of
it on how I physicality of on on the
physicality of it
um I had a dark complexion compared to
the other girls that I was studying um
with I was very tall and for the longest
period of time I thought this was
something which is odd because last one
in the in the
RO and like the the smallest one and all
the girls used to F in the early in the
morning you know you're great your last
to stand oh yeah all the girls used to
fit in like the first five rows and I
used to be in the 12th 13th row back
with the boys right when did that change
um that changed after uh grade 12 when I
when the boy at the attention from the
boys started coming in and I started
getting compliments again chandigar MCM
DAV which is a girls in chandigar
everybody's good-looking so
differentiating is hard right yeah Stu
not every I take that as a compliment
again but yeah chandigar um I don't know
them for me the definition of good-look
has changed considerably from there um
so I always used to think that I am not
this person all all good-look people say
that like you know good-looking is
relative and all that let me let me
redefine it for you yeah did you get if
your class had
did you get more attention than majority
of the class from men or
boys till grade 10 no post grade 12 yeah
post grade 10 yes okay okay so grade 12
you that actually worked well for me by
the way because it it did help me
realize that I'm not probably as bad I
it's it's okay I think but even there it
was my mother who changed it around what
does that do for a girl like I I will
never never know this cuz I can't
resonate with how a girl would feel but
when a girl gets male
attention and is appreciated or is
wanted from a very like emotional lens
is wanted by many
people desirable what does it do to you
like how do you feel is it validation of
something is it an insecurity going away
how do you feel so for me it was an
insecurity going away and me becoming
more confident in my appearance for
example you have farewells right in
schools fairwell parties Etc and you
have to dress up and you have these
events which are happening ramps Etc all
the kids participate I never used to
participate in that I never had the
confidence to go up the stage I never
had the confidence that if I dress up
and style my hair I will end up looking
good so that that emotion was so strong
that I used to avoid events like these
my mother realized that I was trying to
avoid some of these events because I had
I was image conscious and I felt I
wasn't beautiful is when she brought in
a lot of magazines at home and she
started talking to me about a few models
and I was not interested in in that
space at all and just for me to feel a
little more confident on how I looked
she started complimenting me at home for
anything like any weird thing that I
what year was this around 20
this was in grade 12 I clearly remember
2005 yeah around that time yes okay so
guzzle got good-looking great 12th boys
I get good look I was still looking the
same boys started running behind guzzle
went to college in
chandigar and what next yeah I wouldn't
say boy started running behind me
nothing of that but yeah a little bit of
attention work what is
he I don't
know okay now this is my analogy no no
this not
therapy asking questions some of these
years are so so like yes so much happens
on so many different levels be it your
family side be it the person that you're
becoming be it your attitude towards
things be friends and all of that it
forms you as a person
and I mean 12th again was a very very
difficult year for me because I realized
that engineering was not something that
I wanted to do I also realized that my
parents didn't have money and they
figured from somewhere and they spent so
much on the coachings that you have to
take to prepare for the entrance exams
Etc and I was wasting that money I was
becoming more confident on how I looked
so on the image side of it I was
realizing the importance of different
relationships and how it's very
important to have few people in life but
have them really close to you I also
experienced a lot of friends moving away
and the pain that it causes because
somebody can be your best friend today
and tomorrow because the school changes
the college changes um you know the the
they've picked up you've picked up
computers they've picked up something
else that relationship changes and they
move on in life and that was are you
like that now did you become a person
who really gives importance to loyalty
when you watched what happened between
your father and his brothers when you
were 1213 and and has that continued at
Mama Earth today is loyalty a big thing
so to till today loyalty is the most
important thing for me in any
relationship be it with my employees be
it with my family be it with my any kind
of relationships or
friends
I if it gets broken once it's very
difficult for me to be that same
person with that uh person
unforgiving not unforgiving but I don't
forget it there's a difference I will
forgive the person but I will not forget
what happened and that feeling stays
with me because of which I'm not able to
be that same person again do you think
that's a good thing or a bad thing I
think it's a very bad thing it does more
harm to me than anybody else
and I want to let it go I've tried
really hard that this should move away I
should be that person who doesn't care
Etc it's been all like so many years now
but I haven't been able to change it a
bit that's why actually I I forget but I
don't forgive so and and I forget like
this I don't remember anything this is
better that's a blessing I just don't
remember that person forting is the same
as
forgiving that's it's a blessing if you
can do that trust me and it's only
because that work pulls me so hard that
I I kind of forget everything which is
around me okay just finish on guzzle
okay you went to college then yeah so
College I was like a very aggressive
because of what had happened uh with my
dad and all of that time one thing that
my mother told me was you know how you
have these parties like I talked about
the fawell parties or you want to go out
with your friends for a for a movie or
for a lunch Etc everybody pulls in money
right and when I had when you have to
pull in money at that age you're asking
your parents to give you some money or a
pocket money right um and one day um
like I saw some crazy discussion but I
saw my mom telling me I don't have the
money to give you so I can't go and this
happened two three times uh I don't know
what the reason was behind that but
either she actually did not have money
or she wanted me to learn something out
of it or value money more whatever that
was um there's this one line that she
said when I said that you know what
you're not giving me money like how do I
do everybody gets it I will make my own
money so she said Till the time time
you're taking money from anybody else
whoever you are taking it from will make
decisions for you the day you start
earning your own money is the day you
get to choose where to spend it
on and that is what I took with me all
through these years and when I entered
College I so College is very liberating
right unlike school where you have a
fixed routine College you also have some
time and you know you're I have no idea
never went to college
it's it's it's Liber it's liberating in
the sense that you have more time to
yourself than you had while you were in
school you also have a little more
freedom because you have your own
vehicle you have to go to college you
have to take classes then you're taking
coaching Etc um I actually used that
opportunity and I tried to find a job
for myself because I said College I have
to have my own money if I want to spend
it my way how do I make money I started
taking tutions um
figure out what were you teaching maths
and science two students who were like
pre 10th till 10th I would say little
guzzles yeah little little guzzles like
um but I was teaching everything because
my objective was not I was not focused
on what I'm teaching I was focused on
what's the money that's coming in and
how much am I able to make right so
tutions College on the side College
tution on the side and that's the time
when I also picked up my passion for
computer TS because I had experienced it
as an elective subject in grade 10 grade
11 12th it got taken away from me and I
was missing it like crazy so I realized
that that's my passion so when I went to
my parents saying you know engineering
is not something that I want to do and I
didn't sit for the entrance exams with a
fear that what if I get through then
I'll be pushed towards pursuing this as
a career so didn't do that uh and
instead said regular College highi
college regular college that has minimal
fee MCM DAV it's all girls college and
on the side while I'll take tutions I'll
also figure out what is it that I want
to do and I picked up computers I joined
niit there was this course 2 and a half
year course called gni it which
basically gave you exposure towards
multiple different languages and
softwares so that's something that I
picked up and I thoroughly enjoyed it I
loved it so much that I went to my
principal in college I said this is
something that I'm doing
I'm working really hard I want you to
give me some time off college hours
because attendance used to be a concern
there and you had to have like a minimum
uh I think she understood my passion or
I don't know what happened she gave me
that permission that okay you're taking
this another course you're doing really
well there every 6 months you used to
get a score card that I had to submit at
college but continue to do that um but
when I picked that up I had to leave the
tuition so the money that was coming in
the comfort of of having your own U you
know little what that 2 3,000 at that
point of time it was right but it was a
lot it was my I could choose to spend it
on a dress that I want or go out with my
friend how 18 18 17 178 1718 that money
went away but the hunger for money still
stayed so when I was taking this why is
that I've heard this from a lot of
people I think rates will resonate if
you make if one were to equate money
with power yeah power corrupts above all
else right right the more power you have
the more you want there is no concept of
being Satisfied by virtue of power mhm
why do you think most people when they
get it might be a bad analogy but the
taste of money early wants so much more
in a very precocious manner where they
want it so quickly what is it about
money I think ear early on absolutely
that's one of the things early on in
your journey when you taste money and
you're able to and that's only my view I
don't know uh you're able to experience
the Comforts that it brings right
Comfort could be a mental comfort that I
have this cushion it could be the things
that I'm able to buy it could be
experiences that I'm able to take is it
that or is it when your father split he
was depressed lifestyle changed that's
so ingrained in your subconscious that
when you made money your
subconscious was thinking that you're
solving what happened to you as a
12-year-old cuz the Comfort is
irrelevant everybody gets happy when
they get things so
I I would phrase it that I I went
through the discomfort that happens when
you don't have money at 12:13 right yeah
the biggest trigger there yes and I also
saw my dad break down so subconsciously
in my mind money was a very very
important tool for you to be happy so
when you started earning it was not the
shoe or bag you bought but oh no deep
down it was
that problem that you didn't want to go
back and address in your own mind even
slightly mind I was taking pressure off
my parents by not asking them for money
and that was my way to help them which I
was not able to do when I was you know
but I believe n once you've truly
been and you know again poor is a
relative term but I think once you've
really been through trouble right like
when you basically to put food on the
table is uh a challenge you never want
to go back to it I think that feeling of
remembering back um uh that specific
period is it's such a stark feeling I
think that's a very obvious thing though
someone someone who is hungry knows the
someone who was hungry correct knows the
advantage of not being hungry today yeah
I'm trying to get it what is the emotion
that got ingrained in your brain when
you were
hungry makes sense makes sense like now
that you've asked that question and I'm
thinking about it I haven't thought
about it earlier right um for me that
emotion
still it stayed even when we started
Mama Earth out because I did not have
any experience in beauty or personal
care I had no intention of building a
business I I'm an artist as well I was
selling my Works nationally
internationally back then doing really
well can I ask you a question yeah who
are your favorite artists my favorite
they say that kind of artti you like
tells you a lot about a person is it so
my favorite artist is SEMA Ki followed
by paresh Mei both of these are Indian
artists I know I've met them I've I've
seen their work I've taken a lot of tell
some International dead ones I love Wang
off and I love Picasso which painting if
you say Picasso do you like his red face
his blue face do you like cubism I like
cubism the most you will also see it a
bit of it in my work
why um there is so much depth
I think cubism was not him originally
saan started it he got inspired right I
think it was the first time when some
artist did not depict something as it is
but took a derivative of it and that
appealed to but my favorite works of
Picasso have been on the lines of cubism
I just feel that when you put those
lines to form certain shapes um and I
don't know how true that is but there is
so much inter interpretation or there is
so much depth to it that you can pull
out um every time I look at these
paintings I feel a different emotion and
it goes back to how I am feeling at that
point of time when I'm looking at the
painting um I I just and that's
something that I wish I'm able to bring
out through my work and how how long
after college did mam start just out of
curiosity so I spent uh almost 3 and 1
half years with an it then I was an
artist for 2 and a half years and uh
after that 2 years I was working in
India and after that M happened
so almost uh almost 7 years not long 7
7even and a half years uh when I had my
son is when M happened really so which
year did you start mama so Mama started
because of my son when I became a mama
wow
yeah is that why you called it
mama uh the mama word did come from
there but there were a lot of other
reasons as well right now the mama story
has been told already so I don't I won't
go into that too much but uh niit then
what did you say yeah so studied at
niit while studying at niit took up my
first job with an IIT which was a
corporate trainer uh no experience just
because High
Mama suit went gave an interview got
cleared next day they asked us to give
whatever documents we had because they
had to finalize it is when they realize
that I don't my age is not El eligible I
don't have any prior experience and I'm
a student of niit so I can't take the
role up convinced them in some way that
give me one if it doesn't work out I
won't charge for it like I was doing it
for money right there was no other
reason um uh but but they were kind
enough to give me that one opportunity
learned on the job had no idea how to
train people like this was a training
that I was taking for um people who were
in their 40s to 50 50 years of age
bracket who had been working with their
company for almost you know 10 to 15
years and I was the one who was taking a
software that niit had built to them
saying I will teach you how you can do
your work better that was also the first
time I experienced that confidence can
be
faked because I was I I had my legs were
shivering when I entered that room I was
a student and I was supposed to become
their teacher and tell them how can you
use this software that I had also
learned just 7 10 days back and sort of
you know it's learning on the job but
this is the number one competency in
entrepreneurship that you have to be
confident no matter what but really you
have no idea what's going to happen next
I know but again I think on the flip
side uh I always think what can go wrong
worst case I'll be thrown out of it any
which don't have it so
like I will eventually like once I
complete the course yeah so that's okay
the downside was so low like the risk of
failing was so low that then confidently
and you pitch it and you take those
trainings how did you come like I know
there's a onion oil yeah which has
played a big part in this the story I
want to know a bit more about
that how did you go from niit to being
an artist I'm guessing you sold a
reasonable amount of art did fairly well
yeah how did what kind of art did you
make so I'm also into semi abstraction
inspired by these guys okay so you were
doing decently as an artist you were
married by this time yeah yeah
so so niit did that eventually ended up
taking that as my main job did that
about for for about 3 and a half years
met Varun we got married where did you
meet him arranged marriage his W used to
be my neighbor in chandigar she's the
one who arranged it between us of course
Baron and I were chatting on social
media before that because you used to
come visit bua often uh but we were like
yes this is an arranged marriage the way
you're saying got married first
boyfriend no I I had a couple of
boyfriends before that first
husband
um um met Varun the first question that
he asked me when we met right not
exactly the first question but during
that first conversation was what is it
that you want to do and of course you
say a lot of things etc etc my mother
had prepared me what did Von do when you
guys got married Von was working with h
okay as fmcg yeah fmcg Maron has a pure
fmcg experience he was working with h
very good job uh we got married
within 5 months of meeting each other I
moved to Delhi uh and within 2 months of
marriage U why don't had to move to
Philippines for his job and because we
were in this new relationship still
trying to figure each other out and the
relationship out and you don't want to
be I I took a call that I will leave my
job and I'll move to Philippines with
him so when I moved to Philippines is
where I had a lot of ample time I picked
up this passion for painting uh I think
one day I just pulled out some paints
and canvases and I painted and I didn't
realize I was painting the entire night
till morning about 6:37 and by the time
vun woke up I had like four five works
ready to be hung on the wall and he was
super surprised so without telling me he
actually submitted my Works to a couple
of colleges internationally because
earlier he had asked you know what's
your passion I said painting is my
passion whenever I get time I'll pick it
up he asked that would you like he
didn't know it's that Series yeah he was
very surprised so he asked me that
question that back then when we were
getting married right that if given a
chance would you want to pursue it
professionally and I had said yes so
yeah without telling me sent the works
to the academy couple of colleges I got
a call from New York Academy of Arts to
come there and pursue uh artist with
them uh you know the course with them it
was a 9mon uh course and what
year this was right right into our
marriage we got married in 2011 so this
was
2012 uh we spent about 6 months in
Philippines while I was doing all of
this um so 2011 2012 is when this
happened and
um before even when the call came he did
not tell me the call has come he figured
out that if I have to go to that place
where do I stay how do I manage because
he knew that this girl has never been
out of chandigar let alone going to New
York and pursuing this he figured all
the nitty-gritty is
out how will she manage etc etc and when
everything was
sorted that's when he said that if I
tell you you can go to New York Academy
of Arts would you go I said of course I
would love to go with an assumption that
he'll go with me um he said uh that's
when he said that a call has come uh but
you'll have to go
alone uh because he was also new into
his uh journey of uh you know handling
southeast Asia markets but um I said no
and then he convinced me to take the
risk go there alone figure it out yes
good husband
yes touchwood I'm blessed you
guys over to you us over to
us we have to make sure that we sound
good for our
wives yeah so when there then first year
old but gone no no I really wish that g
also say the same things about me but I
have no idea we I'll only find out but
please go on you would know you need
start that first together right yeah of
course but look we we've dated each
other now for what 11 years so ever
since high school so there's probably a
longer context but we'll come to it
later enjoyed my time there um went for
a very different course which was
realism where you paint photo like real
pictures old school impressionist yes
and hated it still life was learning
that I signed up for that course I got
invited for and I hated it uh and then I
I still remember like one of these Side
Opportunities came in which was a call
for artists and you can submit your
artworks and I created something that I
felt like in in I think 3 hours and I
submitted that work and it got selected
to be exhibited at New York Academy of
Arts it was up in their Gallery until
about 2 years back that is what gave me
me confidence that again it's not about
what you know or what you are learning
something entirely different caught the
attention of my teachers and it got
selected so then that's where I started
my journey around Painting came back to
India started exhibiting Works started
getting sold was doing really well I
thought that was something that I wanted
to do for the rest of my life how how
Mama I'm still wonder yeah so Mama Earth
happened after this while I was an
artist we went on our family rout I was
expecting austa happened um what year
this is 2014 okay and uh first 6 months
were okay you're still figuring out
right we used to have a lot of like our
doctor used to call us Google parents
because we were Googling each and
everything around baby you're so worried
as a new parent that you would end up
breaking the baby that I mean we were
like hell lot of paranoid set of parents
not just me set of parents our japa made
which helps you with the baby for the
first months left in 15 days she said
you guys don't let me do anything why
have you signed me up she left in 15
days the child like this and you have to
see it when she does this and you can't
do that right so we were we didn't allow
her to feed the baby we didn't allow her
to sleep with the baby we didn't allow
her to Bath the baby everything we were
doing ourselves so she left and a doctor
also was saying the same things Google
parents Etc I think it was after that
where um Augusta started having some
skin reactions because of which I
realized that the products that we were
using on him were not good enough we
started ordering from outside of India
and those products were suiting him
really well so that is how um you know
as a cribbing wife I went to vun why is
why
inia why don't we have regulations we
not have any regulations were you
ordering from outside so there's this
brand called Baby ganx okay and there is
this brand called honest yeah J
yes I was ordering products from these
two Brands and holding it like crazy
cupboard full of cupo they were all like
organic natural organic very low you
know food gr preservatives Etc and we
did not have anything like that in India
India was even the products that were
calling themselves out as the world
whatever was existing that was my I
shouldn't that was my trigger that was
my trigger because whenever anybody has
a new baby maximum number of gift sets
come from the brand that you said right
Johnson's and Johnson's I
see yeah my first achievement
was it's not Indian brand so say
more so that was my trigger right that
was I was like this is just not
acceptable outside of India and because
I had lived in New York I knew back in
New York there was this whole movement
around J&J going on where their tal had
some cancer causing ingredients in them
and they were being taken off the
shelves so I knew that there's something
off with the brand because I used to use
that tal back then when I came to India
and I was getting all of those gift sets
and then internationally those
controversies are happening and India
also started getting those cases is when
it it was it was like a very strong
trigger that how can this come close to
any of our babies is there regulation
now which makes it harder for stuff like
that to come in I don't think there's
any regulation per se but that's what we
sold for through India I don't think
there is there is so for example aush
would have brought in certain rules um
on the ingredient usage Etc and how do
they certify products to be uh I
certified but back then there wasn't so
you you figured
India banana so what is the how do you
go from there to making a product yeah
so like like a very brief conversation
between me and Von where I'm saying
ordering products is so crazy you're
you're like tracking friends and family
who's
going right it was so much pain and I
just went as a cribbing wife I said why
this problem needs to be
solved and he just made one statement he
said if nobody else is doing it why
don't you give it a
try and that statement stuck I think all
through my life i' I'm just realizing
now that there have been certain
statements which have been like uh
life-changing for me and this was one of
those statements where he said figure it
out can it be done or not it might be a
possibility ingredients are only
available outside and hence it's not
happening so I got like a lever to I
like I wore that research hat and I went
mad around figuring out what's happening
in the baby care industry in Personal
Care can someone do this if I were a 20
old girl yeah and I want to start like a
organic Indian maybe ayurva inspired
something like that brand can I create a
oil or a shampoo or a soap or something
like absolutely and it's not even
difficult and it doesn't have to be very
expensive I think all you need to do is
so for example what is the kind of
product that I'm trying to
create what are the kind of ingredients
that I want the product to
have where are those ingredients
available and at what cost tell me I
want I'm a 21y old girl yeah I want to
start a shampoo which is very good for
me yeah don't laugh at me being a 21y
old girl where do I go about finding out
laughing at him what goes into a
shampoo what goes into a shampoo yeah
how do I get those ingredients and how
do I put them together you have to have
a product that you believe in that this
is something truly differentiated and is
not available in the market or is
providing convenience or is extremely
superior but how do I do that shampoo
how do I make it okay so what we if I
I'm a 21y old one you Google formulation
of shampoo very easily available what
are the ingredients that go into it you
Google I want to make a shampoo at
home you understand that okay there is a
suant system which causes forming these
are the ingredients this is what I want
to put the difficult part is to
understand what are the ingredients that
you want to replace it with and how do
you go about creating those formulations
that is where Google might not be able
to help you as much if you don't know
what do you want to replace it with so
my journey on creating that product and
that was a baby shampoo back then
started by reading the labels of these
brands that I was sourcing from us
um that's a good hack right if there's
something nice out there absolutely
which is expensive if you have a
reference point why for cheap yes and
study the in and out of that product and
you're trying to say you make that
assessment and make your own derived
formula like a no no no no no no for the
for the moment like this could be
swapped in so now you go to an expert to
get that validation that's of course
there but you could do all this within
yourself in the same I just did
paperwork I was just on the paper
studying and trying to understand
understand what is it that I want to
build what is it what should a shampoo
have which will make it milder yet
effective and be very different from
what's available in India which was more
harmful ingredients outside of India
those ingredients were banned in a few
countries to be used on a baby skin
which were being widely used in India
right so one for example studying I just
studied us regulation because that's
where the products were being lifted off
on what are the us regulation where do
you find it online fre absolutely freely
available freely available you stud you
can study us you can study Europe I did
all of that Google was my best friend
and studying these products for example
going to an honest company's website and
seeing what are the ingredients that
they're putting in their product comp
what is the source you take the name of
that ingredient you put it on Google it
tells you what that ingredient does why
is it used for what is the ideal
percentage etc etc so the only thing
that I understood out of all of that
study was the fact that one coconut
based cleansers exist which can make the
shampoo far more milder and non irritant
in nature beat for the eyes beat for the
skin and I wanted to replace the harsh
surfectants which were banned in
countries outside of India but were
being used in the baby products here
with the coconut based surfectants
and then after that I had to reach out
out to people who could help me build
formulations and when you're starting
out how do you find these people yeah so
like again cool calling cool mailing so
you can find if I go on Google and say I
I'm a 21y old girl yeah I think my
shampoo is horrible yeah I find a
shampoo a really expensive Honest
Company shampoo which I really like yeah
I look at the difference in ingredients
of that and what is available here yes
and then I need to find people who will
make this for me yeah who do I call what
do I
Google so here is where LinkedIn helped
because on LinkedIn you can specifically
put search people out who are into
research and development for personal
care products H interesting right so
that's where LinkedIn came handy and we
uh of course we like pulled out at least
at least 30 35 40 people that we wanted
to reach out to we sent we figured their
email IDs from LinkedIn itself I sent
cold mails to these people probably out
of those 353 rted and one out of them
and what timeline months or no no no
that I think that ways our system is
good even today if you write a cold
email to somebody I think you most
mostly get a reply um might be different
now because the definition of
Entrepreneurship has changed it's not
that easy in real estate back then there
was this again you know you have to find
people who are able to understand what
you're trying to say we were a set of
parents trying to solve a problem that a
lot of our friend parents were also
facing how do you establish that connect
so we wrote a parent couple trying to
solve a problem as the subject of the
mail that we had sent out and I think
that really helped us be it finding the
right manufacturing partner or finding
this scientist couple who help us build
uh formulations but that was also true
right because I did not have I couldn't
say anything about myself apart from
being just a mom uh so they reverted
they um helped us like put basic
formulations together of course they did
not have any manufacturing units so we
had to find another partner who could
manufacture the product for us they are
the ones who actually gave us access to
their R&D lab because we did not have
any and that's the beauty of startup
ecosystem in India right the shared
infrastructure that exist
actually eases out building a business
had it been 10 years back you would you
would not even be able to think about
something like this because if you had
to build a formulation you have to have
your own lab and then have your own
manufacturing unit otherwise that
sharing system didn't exist and they'll
be okay to do five 10 pieces if I were
to reach out so they give us access to
their labs labs may you can have hand
handmade batches not the commerci this
is not expensive like access access to a
lab so nobody gives you access to their
lab or their
resources the only reason why we were
able to get that was because we went
crazy like he's still our largest
manufacturing partner by the way we went
crazy following up as a 21y old I can
reach out today and get access to a
lab yes I mean you have to have a vision
and you have to be able to show that
Vision to others your biggest
manufacturing partner yeah yeah so Capco
uh Varun Kapoor and binita again a set
of parents who had kids similar age as
uh us um who they said that this is
something that we had also been thinking
about for the last couple of years a lot
of people have actually come to us tried
to figure this out but nobody has been
able to formulate or do something about
it so are you sure you want to put in
time and effort because nobody has
cracked it till now but can you imagine
that I'm but now I'm getting the point
where he's going and and since he
started from your earlier Journey do you
think today you have manufacturers or
these lab heads who are that welcoming
to attend a call of a 20-y old and says
okay or they have somebody meet this so
and so person is there a welcoming
system in this segment of labs and abely
you think it's still there I mean look
at the number of startups that have come
up in the beauty and personal care space
in the last 5 years I would say there'll
be more today than there were back then
for sure because there moreb there are
Labs the young one calling up you know I
don't know like young people call me all
the time I engage with so many of them
not in I don't have a lab but in other
domain especially uh last 3
years this has really changed because a
lot of people have also experienced
success and they also understand
that if you like the idea you should
pursue it with the person I have come to
terms with that right first three years
I used us to absolutely ignore whoever
was writing
such we were nothing back then uh nobody
used to write as well but today if if
young people and I'll I'll I'll tell you
a small story a 14-year-old who comes to
me and says this is the ayura brand that
I want to create and sits with me for a
couple of hours
brainstorms understands how to build a
business um and is working on it as we
speak this a real story yeah yeah yeah
14y old 14y old 14 year old and I like
super surprised at the kind of ideas
that they have yes they are so sure that
they will be able to figure it out it is
beautiful okay so you formulated it you
met the Capco guys who are your friends
I'm sure some people are going to hit
them up after this a lot of people have
already hit them
up so you made a baby shampoo which
worked better we made four products we
made a baby lotion we made a baby
shampoo we made a 100% natural mosquito
repellent and we made a sunscreen so
these were the four products that we
made we were very clear and each of them
had a purpose how much did it cost you
to get to this point
nothing this business getting your
prototypes for example what we were
working towards was having five pieces
of each we which we could show to people
let them experience it sort of figure
out and give us
feedback hand bch like working in your
kitchen it's like beers and you're
whipping it and you you made hand it's
not as fine as the commercial batch but
you know if the formula is okay if the
feel and texture is okay the commercial
batch will come out fine right again
because we were digital first we did not
have the pressure of number of units
that need to to be created right because
we were not Distributing it in one
Warehouse you can produce as low as
5,000 units of per product 3,000 units
of Peru thatare so it cost it to set up
the warehous no again we didn't own the
warehouse shared
ecosystem you use people who have uh you
know amas and all of those of the world
who have that infrastructure and you
sign up with them no cost no fixed
cost so it depends on the amount of
space that you sign up for is you're
using and then it it starts from there
for the first 6 months of our business
we did not have an office a matter took
one seat up I think you can transfer the
question sush she this hot food he knows
that I ate before I came what year was
this we started we launched Mama Earth
in December of
2016 so
2015 um end of 2015 and early 2016 is
when we were figuring it out July is
when we incorporated the company we then
worked with Partners finding the right
kind of people who could actually make
it for us December 5th December 2016 is
when we we launched it with Amazon
Launchpad with uh what is Amazon
Launchpad amaz Amazon launch pad okay so
that was also the first year that Amazon
had come up with this property called
Launchpad where they were helping
startups or newer businesses get
launched on their platform it was
separate from Amazon so they were also
trying to optimize for example these
brands should come up and search or try
to give them more visibility or get them
um you know visibility to the right kind
of people within the ecosystem of Amazon
Etc so we launched with them you you
would owe a lot of success to that pad
that they created according to you now
that was a starting point so you made a
few products they worked what happened
next you had a warehouse all of this
costed in between also how how do you
know the product worked or not worked
was also something that was really
important and like completely changed
the way we pitched the brand to our
consumers or we talked about it um so we
made those set of five products um
because we were living in Delhi South
Delhi really premium toy shopi and we
stood outside that toy shop because that
guy did not let us in we wanted to do
some consumer work to understand if
people you went to a toy shop yeah he
didn't let you in so you did s stood
outside and did the survey and anybody
can do that anybody can do that it it's
basically a walkway outside the shops
right anybody can stand there so we
stood there we knew our relevant
consumer set is going to come and
parents are the only ones who will come
to a toy shop or probably one who's
trying to take a gift for kids but they
will be exposed to that segment of kids
right so we stood there um
andly approached people who were working
in made them try our products for
feedback gave them candies in return
that was the only thing that we could
afford back then um and started filling
our survey form for us to be able to
take feedback because when you're making
natural
products back then we did not know that
the performance can be at par with some
of these other products now we know far
better but we also thought that
performance might not be as good or the
texture might not be as good it's a
handmade batch Etc we wanted to take a
lot of feedback on the way the product
looked we had created labels so you were
doing it with the packaging as well yeah
and we had created the labels and
everything at home B waren and I came up
with the brand name those labels still
continue all our baby products are with
the same label that we had designed back
then uh and you got this far with no
money very little money yeah so we had
raised a friends and family around
because we thought we would need a lot
of money MH uh we we did need money so
for example the entire first 30 days it
was just me and waren when we launched
ourselves on Amazon Launchpad and a few
orders started coming in we were the
ones who were packing the orders
ourselves as well for us to be able to
to dispatch it I still remember December
is when we got this order of uh 20 sets
of four different products from Bombay
this mother wanted to give those
products as return gifts on a birthday
party and we were like super happy very
excited but so nervous Beast product per
you working with five per product how
would we make it how would the
production happen who will make it how
will it get reach them in time etc etc
but figured figured that piece out
worked on crunch timelines and
everything um January the first time you
get that check for the first transaction
it's like is the most special the first
purchase the first consumer the first
bulk
order BR it's the most special it is it
was really special and that's when
that's what gave us confidence that we
feel we need somebody in the team the
first check framed at our office the
first check of like bulk booking of 10
room nights so you pitched each vendor
individually to get orders yes and how
do you find out who the vendor should be
for Cosmetics or baby products no back
then I didn't have an option there was
only one guy who said yes okay I'll work
with you how did you find who to pitch
to so okay the way you find
manufacturing there are so many personal
care products available in the market
every personal care product has the
manufacturer's address written on it
right so you pick up like the to yeah
you pick up top 10 you reach out to them
for them to give you some time for you
to be able to go to them and Pitch
nobody gave us time these were the only
people that we were able to get through
we had a conversation with them um we
loved the fact that they were parents
themselves and that gave us a lot of
confidence that they will put an extra
effort to figure this out with us which
they did uh so they came in as a
blessing to us um so started working all
the products were being manufactured at
the same place as a consumer it's
actually the most misunderstood thing is
it yeah yeah one of the biggest pain
points that I'm facing today uh is this
perception that people have that if
you're manufacturing if you don't have
your own manufacturing the quality of
the product can't be as good who is it
because you don't have they subcontract
everything right so technically they do
but it's not really but isn't that the
case with most large not manufactured by
Mama right it's it's uh sold and
marketed by m and then manufactur that
true for most large cpg companies
they see what I think consumers will say
for the long and this comes from history
right for the longest period of time for
example H Etc all of these larger
Partners have had their own
manufacturing for that matter 10 years
back that was the only way to get into
business you can produce a product if
you have a manufacturing unit and that
was the capex that was required to set
it up to get started I'm so glad that
that entire process got disrupted and
with very minimal Capital you can now
use this Shar infrastructure and start a
business of your own otherwise like 90%
of the ideas would have still stayed an
idea because you didn't have the money
now from the consumer side because this
comes to me a lot personally that you
don't have your own manufacturing and
hence what they don't understand is
manufacturing is different R&D is
different the IP is
developing Personal Care there's no IP
there's no IP right because you are
you're disclosing 100% of the
ingredients ingredients with the
percentages so not with the percentages
but you're disclosing the name when R&D
is yours which is and a product has so
much to it the the sensorial the texture
the efficacy the feel that just knowing
the knowing the ingredients you might be
able to come closer to the product but
you cannot crack exactly what the other
person has cracked right uh or you
reverse engineer that's also a
possibility but a company can have it
her own R&D her own
expertise we have our team members
sitting at manufacturers plant you know
to to to for Quality checks to ensure
that everything that we have set out as
a process is being followed and what we
are using is the capex that that person
has invested into putting those machines
and setting up that manufacturing unit
if I have to set it up today it actually
becomes a limitation for my business
because I'll be limited with the space
that I have the number of machines that
I can put and hence Innovation which for
the longest period of time has been
super slow in India formulations get
developed outside of India and then they
are imported within India and then
they're adjusted for India which dilutes
the performance of the product that is
something which Mama challenged that is
something that we figured and we played
on and Innovation is an edge now that
everybody talks about about and all of
the larger players have also started
talking about it okay coming back to it
so as a 21 year-old uh what I have
learned
today if I'm able to look at a great
Korean brand I know the formulation I
can hit people up on LinkedIn who will
make it for me I can find a lab which
will be willing to do five to 10 pieces
to try if I convince them enough yeah at
a negligible cost I don't really need to
spend the money required to set up a
manufacturing facility yes I can use a
co-packer and it'll just be be just as
good probably better because if one guy
is not doing good I can make him compete
with another and get a better
product now I've gotten to the point
where I can manufacture how do I get
distribution how do I sell what worked
for Mama
there so when we were doing the consumer
study sitt standing outside that toy
shop we realized we got a lot of
feedback on how to communicate what to
communicate what was what were they
understanding what were they not
understanding so one of the examples a
pack said sulfate free and this one
mother came to us and said sulfate free
free so that was the understanding that
the consumer had and we realized that
just communicating this free that
ingredients this is free of these
harmful ingredients is how we've got to
put it we can't say sulfate free paraben
free communication got sorted from there
what we also realized was that for a new
brand purchasing from directly from the
website takes some time for them to have
trust on the product or the brand and
hence platforms which have which these
guys already trust which were like
Amazon Amazon flip cart Etc it's better
to list yourself there and be available
there because the Trust on the platform
has an equity rub off on your brand that
if this brand is available on the
platform that I trust yes I would want
to give it a try what works in terms of
like you said not sulfate free or
paraben free but different things that
was your hack what could be a hack in
the ecosystem today 21 yearold starting
a Cosmetic Company what can I what can I
use as a means of selling my product
which would be differentiation today it
depends on different propositions for
example mama was one brand we now have
six Brands and each brand has a very
different communication and a very
different proposition Beauty and
personal care in India is still evolving
right um there and people now have
Global aspirations they know what's
happening in a Korea they know what's
happening in a China and how the beauty
system there is can I bring what's
happening in Korea to India and
replicate it well and it's an
opportunity right now you can bring
what's happening in Korea to India one
way is you Source the products from
there and make it available in India at
affordable prices and you'll have to
figure people are already doing that
well right yeah but it ends up being
expensive second is you create your own
brand on the proposition that's working
there because you've checked enough that
even Indian consumers really very
strongly relate with it so I'll give you
an example can we match Korean quality
here you can do better nice I've done
that with my third brand good to hear I
have a brand called aqualog which is a
brand based on deep hydration for your
skin Korea skincare trend is deep
hydration for your skin they've been
using multiple ingredients to figure
those formulations out we said what can
we do for India see the problem is for
the longest period of Time beauty
Personal Care
industry it was like says it
beautifully charm right people haven't
been able to come out of it and say that
Indian skin is different Indian weather
is different and hence the product
efficacy or the product texture Etc
needs to be different um so aqualog is
that brand which is based on basically
this Korean Trend around deep hydration
for your skin um a bestselling product
there is sunscreen it has taken the
market by
storm it is the best selling sunen with
hydration sunscreen with hydration no
white hydration G I like I know what a
moisturizer is but how does it like I'm
actually curious about a lot of what
you're saying and I'm
like what determines how much hydration
you get from what
cream so one like if I'm paying a bomb
like if I'm paying one lak rupees for a
fancy cream let's say laam mer or
something and let's say I'm paying 200
rupees or 50 rupees for a cheap cream
let me not name them yeah what is the
difference so one the way your skin
feels after 2 to 3 hours of application
or even after 6 to 8 hours of
application should one tell you the
difference second we have figured so
simple hack Amazon has this instrument
called moisture meter I think it's
available anywhere between 3 to 400
bucks that's it right apply any cream
test the moisture in your skin compare
whatever creams you want to compare and
it'll tell you which cream is the most
hydrating one over the years I've
realized nothing should be left to gut
based or subjective interpretation of
things if you put in can buy this on
Amazon yes yes but what's the meter we
should look for that it is correct so it
has two uh metrics moisture content and
oil content oil content needs to be
lesser moisture content needs to be
higher the more moisturizing it is the
more moisture content the more hydrating
the product is if the oil content also
ends up being higher you will feel
stickiness on your skin and that's how
you can judge the I won't get into
distribution too much CU we did a
episode with Kishore Raj and anant and
we did distribution for two hours how to
sell on Amazon how to be ranked higher
in their algorithm growth hack stuff
like that but incredible story uh some
of the Nuance I don't know like now will
be resonate with it when you were 12 13
years old the split in your
family built some kind of insecurity in
you
that many of the other
things loyalty Financial Freedom Early
slightly aggressive slightly
unforgiving uh forget but don't truly
forget forgiving but don't doesn't
forget forgive I've forgiven a lot of
people in my life could you say that if
you forgive and you don't forget is
slightly unforgiving true no true
forgiveness for
you're putting yourself at ease you're
taking that burden or that pressure off
your otherwise it keeps moving in your
mind that you're still upset by certain
things so you've forgiven it's no longer
bothering you and it's no longer
bothering the other person but would I
trust that person again with the amount
of trust that I had before would I trust
that person again probably yes but with
my share with my fair share of doubts
yeah uh mom stepping up big event yes it
it's very evident how that has uh also
when you said Mom or Dad favorite or who
you would like to be like you said Mom I
think it has defined your personality to
a certain
extent uh when you got confident about
how you look beyond the 12th grade I
think retesh came in between and added
there but being confident about
anything uh how you are conf confident
about how you look is a big part of
being confident about anything yes and I
think to any young entrepreneur it makes
a big
difference also uh creativity by virtue
of being an artist big part of I'm
drawing a guzzle word cloud M at the end
of the day I will compare word clouds
because you are anomalies all three of
you one in 99 who have failed at
building a successful startup so I'll
see what are the
similarities and then we will try and
fig out if this is the right answer to
the question what makes a startup
successful creativity again I think
extremely important in a world where
everything has become so
mechanized uh differentiation comes from
creativity uh and this is a little bit
of a digression but how good your
partner
is
yes how you how
supportive the man or woman you choose
to to uh cohabitate with or marry or
have children with absolutely is a game
changer absolutely would you think this
would have been your word cloud starting
off what is guzzle the
entrepreneur very interesting I'm also
hearing this for the first time I've
never created yeah I've never created a
word cloud around me but um I would
truly say these are the words that have
i I can't add anything more to it these
are the largest defining pillars of your
professional success yes and not the
typical hardworking generic
that everybody gives right those are by
products that everybody needs to have
yeah like over the time I also figured
that everything is f figureoutable is
the word that I use but I mean there's
nothing that you can't figure if you if
you put in the right amount of effort
everything in the world is figureoutable
it's it doesn't matter like you've
learned it you've done a course around
it You' you've picked this up or not
just to be curious enough and that works
really well but thank you for being so
vulnerable and honest about it I think
uh in this pursuit of being more public
we all become so rehearsed with time
that we become boring and I think people
are able to gauge that today I'm sure
yeah I'm sure yeah okay moving on I
think we'll come to rates last because
his story is most popular and has been
told so many times so Manish is this
rare like you know we talk so much in
the media about unicorns and all that
right I don't know what animal is rarer
than unicorns I would call him like I
don't know a dinosaur dinosaur I was
going to say dinosaur because that one
is rarer yeah so you made my cloud
already yeah the one word is
enough so I've seen rare rabbit uh
there's a store in the mall right next
to my house uh in UB City and I've seen
it like here and there many times in the
past so we were investing or we're in
the process of investing in rare rabbit
and when we started researching the
company a bit more it just didn't make
sense it was stupidly incredible like a
Indian H grown Western cloth
manufacturer a company built in the era
that we live live in making a profit
after tax with no investors he it's his
house so I'm hearing him fully bootstrap
he's up uplifting it too much with no
investors no dilution nobody and our man
has built it when I when first
generation you built it incredible how
many years ago 7 years 7 years ago just
7 years ago so we start congratulations
2017 16 17 and nowhere to be found in
the media no interviews no like if you
you like our team was trying to do like
a bio of him yeah someone asked bio I
said he said he
doesn't so then they started looking up
online you didn't put words to it I am
from Bombay originally born and brought
up in Bombay uh lived in h a small uh
place called kalba Dei which is a very
hustle bule textile Market you can call
it the B Bazar of Kolkata or the the
bazars of chi chalk and chick bait of
Bangalore so grew up there uh had a lot
of challenges dad was a hardworking man
uh separated from his brother and he was
trying to make his big life he dad
separated from his brother brothers
similar story yeah and Happy separation
sad s separation separation never
Brothers can he moved out not that I
could I have no memory of how he did and
all that I was but you didn't pick it up
like this mhm okay but I think uh India
95% 98% normal this is
like so we used to live there uh not had
too much of access of great things from
a color TV or whatever could go to
neighbor's house to see movies uh they
would be on sofa I would be on floor but
that was life and uh there are a couple
of things that strung me that when I
moov from that place to Cuff parade
which is the let's say the skyscraper
part of Bombay because how old were you
when your parents your dad and brother
separated I would be
what 3 four 5 years old 3 four month I
mean not even the conscious of mind too
young to understand no we were in Bombay
always actually that age they say
between 3 to 78 all psychology states
that even though your memories might not
be Vivid those are the most impactful
those are very formative my memories go
very grasp the most as like something I
remember for some but I'm not sure this
kind of stuff would they be able to
understand yeah absolutely you would not
understand what happened but now you can
relate to it you can understand the
noises you can understand that you're
packing a bag and leaving and just going
somewhere but yeah it happens in
everyone's life but
I think uh we are sitting also here
because today from whatever success
we've got the message is also to those
20 year olds that you may be in that
same hustle buzle Madness wrongs and
rights of life but there's always an
outcome there's always a shine out
that's why you can hear us or believe us
or it can happen to any of you so moved
uh it was tough uh small things were
difficult I always had the eye for
design color especially uh I can uh I
can pick color very fast some eyes are
trained for that my God gift is
that and uh I used to love shoes like
these in those days and it was not
accessible we'll put a picture of R's
shoe on his way out okay h on this
podcast you should because really cool
he's shying my red ones as well my sh my
red ones are shying actually so for me
it was a lot of everything was less
available and I had to do a lot not too
much in
advance uh right I mean everything in
life I've done it I think almost 6 seven
years earlier five six seven earlier
from lighting a first cigarette to
stealing Chiller money from home uh
stealing a car from the house doing
anything in life and then one fine day
when you're growing you just say uh I
the other big influencer of my life is
movies uh Indian and uh the western
movies
I think uh people may realize or not
realize maybe some part you would
realize that in movies some some lady
has also affected some personality there
as well because Indian India
is somewhat we are enveloped and
surrounded with this this culture of
movie around us actually I do I do and
if you are now busy that's a different
thing but it has a very big impact other
than Parents movie and the role play has
always I think the way diamonds and
cigarettes got sold by Hollywood is test
ment to yeah yeah how soft power is in
the movies absolutely but let's hear it
from your childhood my childhood of
course been uh unlike your parents uh my
mother was very hard on me I was uh
quite brutally handled because I was I
also never gave get better reasons in
life to her for doing everything in life
and uh so I was talking about movies
because uh with
movies for me there was nothing Beyond
methun chakra and amaban there was
nothing there was one guy who could move
dance and look Glamour and gold and this
is this man who's got all this Charisma
of looking how dashing he was and the
first time when the jacket came with a
so we are talking about bomber jackets
now when amaban got his first jacket to
put his hands inside we were like how do
you put a hand here you know that's
that's a big thing there's a pocket here
and that was a big thing to have to
ourselves that you could wear something
I can have a pocket
here so from dad's business would pick
up some Fabrics here and there and uh
from his office steal some T of Kaa and
go to the tailor get it stitched sit
there and as as and while this was
happening uh uh education was nowhere
just trying to uh kind of scrape through
by 70% coping in exams and finding a way
through just do this
Duty and uh finally when 12th came I was
done with the struggle of
copying just took a car back and I said
Mom I don't want to study and I had this
sag of becoming a businessman so in
school people carry bags you know and I
would carry a VI VIP suitcase of my dad
and yeah to school and open my books
from that and people would laugh at me
because I just wanted to feel
businessman you know businessman
suitcase
office I think fifth standard I carried
the first time a VIP suitcase like
basically businessman would carry cash
in the suitcase so that equivalent was
you carrying books yeah and I wanted to
carry that was my bag also files yeah I
did it for five six years I mean the
class you're going in the cash
[Music]
Direction
so uh dad used to be uh tell us a bit
more about your dad my dad uh he's
uh he's a great businessman a great
Hustler he could he's there's one story
I want to tell you from where it starts
actually my dad when he split from his
brother and uh it was over a simple
issue that his brother wanted my uncle
wanted to make 50 p a
meter used to be in textile business
textile business and he was the
monopolis my uncle was a monopolis of
few NTC Mills of Bombay for certain so
NTC Mills would have uh National textile
Corporation because everything was
nationalized uh there were some what era
are you talking about we talking about
80s '70s and ' 80s uh till ' 90s also
they were Mills NTC Mills was a he was a
supplier to ntcs no he was a buyer of
the Mills uh the fabrics and they used
to make 10 20 qualities each quality
used to be handhold by certain cartel of
business businessman so my dad would
have certain sorts and my dad was very
he was a very quick Rotator in business
and unlike his brother who was 15 years
older to him who would want to make more
money but he would say you're making 25
PES
you so on that tussle he says no you
don't know business and he knows
business better and things like that
they split but he still went there to
take that 20,000 m to the mill and and
at that time
um he entered that office uh so he was
not an English speaking guy he would
actually go and he didn't know what
excuse
me he was just a straight man so he
would enter the Chairman's office where
he would have two guards and no one can
get out of so Mr s when he would leave
the textile mill who Mr s Mr shushil sen
is also one of the reason uh one of the
the key man who made even Kish Ban's
life and he also was instrumented making
my Dad's life uh from very very early
days what did he do uh uh Mr he was a
director and chairman of all the mills
in Bombay by the government in the ' 80s
so when he would leave his house 42
Mills air conditions used to go on
that and textile was the predominant
large business of the 8S yeah India Yar
textile uh and that's it Reliance also
started that yeah Reliance bomb dying
bomb dying all you name it and everyone
P Bombay wealth creation effectively
started pyramids are also from textile
so um Mr suil sen was like entering his
chamber and he wanted to get crash in
and he my father because he said and he
was fighting outside with the managers
that I want this deal on my name and
which was not happening because they
said this is your brothers and why have
you've come he heard all this nonsense
he said come inside I said my brother
doesn't know the deal I want to take
this and uh he says and how will you pay
says that I don't know and when will you
pay says after I sell and I recover and
I say
or so I said and he was like are you
serious this is almost like was seen
through Sho differently but and uh he
just saw it in him and that's how get
that in those days trust and eye contact
and those things had a very different
value than these 30 pages contracts
today so he was just
like that's my father and my name so and
I'll just formate the company and come
back and he did that and he never
stopped he was uh he was called the
textile Mafia When I joined I was 17
years old was called the texti my dad
because he would really break in uh he
was very he's a big he was a big hustler
in textile he could break there are many
things he knew that his objectives are
very clear that my objectives is first
the rest is L so he would like literally
know
that my contract is closed my income is
very important
so when I joined the business everyone
he also became very popular with uh even
the pamel house the biggest Trader
foreign trips given to him and things
like that the ' 80s this was late 80s
late ' 80s he he and my uncle thought my
other Uncle actually they were still
together that let's start exporting
Fabrics to Bangladesh uh a export
exporter you know that dollar income
and
finally mohamm
group and what group mohammadi group
mohammadi Bangladesh is all Muslims
right so everybody the names are but one
of the companies in Daka companies in
Daka they just saw that group and they
said let's get into entry here bu could
sample rample and they took the first
order so they so as a family we just go
we are we are a family we kind of
respect and really bow down to those
those people who have actually given us
that first lift in life so suil s Anisha
who who would have become the the leader
of the country today or a very important
leader of the country he left I mean he
passed away uh almost a decade back
maybe plus minus
so that man it never stopped we became
the founder of muhammadi group Mr anak
Bangladesh Bangladeshi person he's my
mentor uh because
um in 96 when we had another split
between my father and another brother
that's when uh I had to pack a bag and I
had to go out for business at the age of
18 18 19 years old and uh where did you
go to school in all in Bombay which
school I went to G suani and followed by
jind college which uh I didn't pursue
study what uh Commerce Maris have no
other
option and
art I did Home Science though in school
cross stitching cooking I was the only
guy in the in the girl
segment uh so took uh when the other
split happened uh I I I had to take over
the business of Dad's and uh I had
already started working at the Agee of
16 17 with that in the
Mills uh all the Mills I would design
textile create my own color boards and I
was the first one to actually create
mood boards which today in your business
would be themes or the whole campaign
board around and things like that I used
to make those in these uh people would
carry bags of swatches and hangers and I
would carry boards unreal for even
factories and uh self for Bangladesh uh
not to even how old were you at this
time 17 18 and not so when was the first
paycheck you got on your own like a
marvar family did you get paid by your
family for a bit and then I so there's a
very uh different and I hope the
generation especially I don't know
wherever it's relevant nowadays kids
think you know ke dad has put me to
education and uh one day I will pay back
my dad for whatever he spent on my
education and I tell my kids I said
don't make it too cheap and shallow here
you start from the birth from the cereal
that you ate had even compounding B baj
of Maris all the holidays and if you can
also firstly calculate all that so don't
take this short fouryear payout I
thought that was a good thing I said I
initially thought that you said you
meant to say that don't be so shallow
it's you don't need to do it and then
you revers it and said Baba that starts
all the way no I said no you do this
because what's this this this fat
because I have boys right and all of
them are young and my friends have kids
and they all have this one paycheck to
the parent in the end like you know one
exit
clause I said look I've employed people
I've created a system and ecosystem
you're born in this family not to give
me my forc back and what do I do with
that money you owe much more no and what
do I do and then did you study just for
that you try to commit me that you'll
add more value you'll do this you'll do
that I want to dream this I want to go
that's what you're supposed to do
eventually would you want
your would they work at rare rabbit
eventually uh I don't know this I so I
work I think very differently my wife
and I think very differently they have
their own life they can do what they
want uh there is no ready seat at all
they'll never get that readily why not
because it's a business which has its
own Dynamics it has its own plus minus 2
plus 2 is never five four it's sometimes
it's five sometimes it's minus for
whatever reason because nothing works
and you have to learn the the the sa CID
kale you know you go up to 99 and
suddenly like that last snake brings you
down and you don't come up straight to
100 because B Dial Dial R can I ask you
a question nurture versus nature who is
is are kids predisposed to do well at a
certain business is there a is there
such a thing as Talent inherent talent
in people or is it upbringing Evolution
experience which defines who does well I
think a small part of but it's a very
small part to according to me that they
they have it in them uh for whatever DNA
reason is just to be that you can have
your
uh somewhat a bit uh values of the
family right that's it baky I think kids
only see and become and behave uh only
from whatever they see around their home
uh dad's working hard he's coming late
he's he's he's not he's still got a
smile on him and all of that so that
upbringing the upbringing is not the
upbringing you know holidays and take
them out do some Trampoline Jumping and
was that the case with your father he
worked hard came home with a smile or no
uh I never got to see my dad for the
longest time he would come and I would
be sleeping and uh Sunday was the only
time and I would watch with him back
toback four or five black and white
movies for me when I was in textile uh I
used to I was very fortunate then uh at
the age of 98 I was B 2021 and uh Dal G
of century Mills which is owned by Mr BK
Babu BK Bera wait what happened between
18 to 21 that's where I am uh I got a
chance to uh so at 18 you split your
brother your father and the other Uncle
who had not split split you left and
started what no no uh it was my dad who
split with my uncle and I helped him
that and that's why I was arbit I was an
arbitrator act actually at that time I
was doing the my dad didn't want to he
didn't understand what was going on and
what's with the books and all of that
and I had to dig in a lot so learned a
lot actually from that I have no regrets
with that and I'm uh super super close
to my family yet again
and uh so we when we when we split I had
to start all over again took up
Bangladesh export business and uh what
came my way because I got a little
popular with the textile mills of morari
Mills of pams why uh because I used to
be forever in their uh 60°
furnace uh areas and inspecting fabrics
and boiler rooms and no lunch I got
hospitalized for acidic attack no water
intake that's my biggest habit wrong
habit even today water is missing in my
body when you talk about
hydrants water itself has been it's been
it's it's it's it's the the only bad
habit I have I can't sip water even now
I don't feel the urge of it but anyways
uh moving from there got popularized and
somehow Dal and panar in those days was
this with your dad or outside with my
dad uh yeah that's why I said I got my
kids along because when you said is it
your money and you separated or what is
it I said dad had got this amount of
uh uh three and a half four crores and
big money back then yeah
99 uh I would not so big I think it was
good money it's not the bigs of today is
like how you would imagine big is what
and
uh so on and so forth so if you put that
money in that frame then you realize
you're already one only
left and then we finally said okay let
me do this uh Mr Dalia of century Mills
denim they put a plant in satti indor
and they saw that they put the big large
Mill and they didn't know how to make
more than 69 qualities there and I I
could we and construct and so many other
textures and beaves and I could take it
to almost
450 uh 465 sort numbers they were sort
numbers created like that they were each
quality batches and I would take about
30 25 35% of the production to
Bangladesh and sell it at a at a
margin uh is that how Bangladesh's
textile industry started so Bangladesh
is a very it's a Jud country and uh so
why would why would why did they have
need or demand for the textile you were
taking from India to them so in 1986
there is which is called the father of
the nation Mr nul kader he actually took
16 men at his expense it's a very poor
country was and back then though it was
terrible now it's
booming that those numbers are the per
capita income of Bangladesh is probably
the highest in South Asia at least in
textiles they've killed it right yeah
yeah but uh biggest employer in
Bangladesh the lar indust largest in the
world and uh as a country and I think 56
or 60% almost the GDP the economy is on
garments to export manufactur garments
they employ the largest human force in
uh in uh Manufacturing in one industry
alone so this gentleman Nal kin back in
those days took 16 men and uh took them
to Korea on his expense to understand
how to do Line Manufacturing system not
do one piece you he was the Prime
Minister of no uh he was just a
businessman uh but a very renowned
person those 16 people from Korea when
they trained and came back it's like how
the Toyota car manufacturing is Parts
come from all sides and you're just
assembling it so that's the mechanism of
production which uh he adapted to on his
expense he put up a large Factory huh
and in 89 uh the entire Factory was
underwater of 34 M so everyone had to
leave he just took a promisory note in
those days that you all will stick to
two garments so those 16 people became
5,900 factories plus minus today in dhha
and I think daa itself is the highest
than it is Chong it's huge I mean they
do the best of garment manufacturing
globally today um so we I did very good
business out of
Bangladesh of textile export uh
continuing whatever dad started in 88
and from the age of 18 to to almost 23
24 I got married at 24 and uh I was also
doing South African textile export
business and that's when I realized
that's a smaller country I could ask or
convince the brands like uh camel the
cigarettes brand they had a
manufacturing that bong and all of them
that if I could manufacture garments and
send you so took the initial orders of 6
800 pieces back in those days and uh was
doing well so what happened in
2005 uh sorry yeah
20045 uh I just was in Europe and I
realized this brand called Zara and I
was looking at the store and how old
were you then 24 25 and I said uh looks
good looked at some shirts and I said
it's possible I can make it and
everything was seeing made in Spain made
in Spain so I thought Spain brand over
G Apple Cola I mean
mus the desktop Googled
index and made a phone call and uh I
want to speak to the shirt buyer and he
said yes so there's one thing which uh
that's why I asked you about
manufacturers are they welcoming here to
just say huh so we have this policy
which is there in my life in my company
which I got it from index so inditex uh
cannot refuse an
appointment you can call right now I'll
give you the number you can just call
him and I said I'm
n kamut and I'm a manufacturer of
t-shirts I make sleep well even today
they can't refuse no it's it's monitored
uh it's a very simple logic you're
sitting here in a village it's a village
Laruna Northwest of Spain nobody goes
there the flights operate for that
company from Madrid and Barcelona and uh
because Mr Ora doesn't leave and he's a
fine man lives in a small house still
doesn't move from that house 18
00t marri
there so you telling me if I'm 21
boy making t-shirts and I want to sell
to Zara if I called index today they
have to give me an appointment they will
tell you yes you can come in now it may
take you four more calls uh but the
operator system there is that they don't
ask who you are you just ask for a
sleepware buyer they just push the call
and everybody in in their office has the
office phone in their pocket M it's a
desk phone but it's in the pocket clip
and you can't leave it you have to have
it with you by chance you've left it
you're announced on The Voice in the
entire office which is almost 2 million
square fet of
office that and it's a very very slow
decibel sound Mr Mr perak call for you
extension all he has to do is go to the
next phone anywhere on the world and
pick
it while he's talking to me in a meeting
room and they have 200 meeting rooms uh
each table is as big as this and 600 ft
each
room 200 meeting rooms and you have
Korea China but tell me what are the
odds if I like I'm making t-shirt
there's my t-shirt I call Zara and say
will you buy my t-shirt what are the
odds of them buying
it so if I look at this particular
t-shirt because you've written the word
Bangalore boy and if the designer there
or the chief designer there or someone
just catches is an eye and a story
behind it that I'm taking a city which
they'll not take a city uh no sorry they
will take it they'll not take uh scripts
of different language because it could
mean an abuse there here and all that so
if they can build City Tokyo New York
Bangalore if they create a table of
t-shirts if that's the theme they would
have they would place an order to you uh
back in those days even now now they
will just maximum tell you is that we
like your product everything is good can
we keep it or please can you contact our
uh Delhi office for
compliance just to check that you're
fine in those days I worked for 12 years
exclusively for them I designed
collections for them I was the only
men's manufacturer for them for uh Zara
man and uh when you say you were the
only men's manufacturer you're talking
about all of and designing so it used I
used to sell my own design I'm not a
factory who would who would
manufacture given
designs which most of the exporters do
in India so Zara gives them a design and
says make this for us yeah that's it you
would design and take it to Zara and say
show a collection sell the collection
and and get my hit ratio there so of
course coming back it's still about that
marble no and uh I always did business
for only profit I never understood
business which had no margin similar
what your dad said
that I don't know because I only knew 2
plus 2 has to be four or 2 plus 2 make
me my six because I need that balance
too so I didn't know any other formula
and that similar thing happened with Ray
rabbit as well when my dad came once to
see the collection and he said this boy
is getting frustrated doing exports so
in that whole process of my life because
25 you went to Zara 12 years you made
t-shirts for Zara you were 37 by then
yeah and then what happened and became
the largest for the kids where started
mango what is the scale of this how much
money did you make from Zara at that
point I'll tell you about my first money
then what you're talking about my first
Money Was
Bangladesh uh which was
uh on calculation it was about 25 lakhs
and I I placed the order in I got an
order from Bangladesh you're talking
about one order one order and when I
took that order I had to go to salm to
place it and uh I stayed back in salm
because I found that I could not I
should not buy from traders in Bombay
and when I went to Salem I could find it
at least 15 10 Rupees cheaper because he
was keeping that margin so I stayed back
there and I opened an office there and
only I did come back to
Bombay and uh a lot of mosquitoes so I
would sleep with a wet towel on me
because the the building that I bought
now rent has
started but it was a bad choice today if
you ask me because I didn't know what
sound I was sleeping with with
mosquitoes of what size and it was bad
and uh so that my first real income was
25 lakhs and to that same customer
within 3 months I paid 50 lakhs as claim
because that quality which was shipped
from there was not of good
standard and I was crying uh from the
hotel there and I called up
Dad and the only thing he explained me
was
that my dad never knew which class I am
in all his life
and I
said I'm
sure
WhatsApp it's impossible entrepreneur
created his
product I go to my office and they have
this internal Mage with pictures yeah
yeah WhatsApp Journey so in fact meage
talking about message with pictures so I
had to do learn styling I was not a
designer officially I stole 5,000 rupees
from my mother's cupboard I applied to
some lady in worly CFS who could get me
brochures of colleges to go abroad
abroad no one asked TIG racing did you
steal money from your mother's cupboard
yes
very good child huh I'm talking like 50
rupees I was I was 3 years old when I
first told
25 I have I
have we'll come into that why V3 have
and you haven't it's interesting
question
fair enough so after that uh this
10 where was I um 25 lakhs Bangladesh 50
lakhs claim dad a claim and uh they
never looked I never did that mistake
again and uh made sure everything was in
was right my biggest support uh and to
anyone is I think at least man now I
have a lot of friends of my age and
everyone and we all miss that fact that
that one support now it's okay it's fine
uh just to say that to confirm that it's
fine otherwise now who else do we go to
and ask it's
fine someone has to assure that I'm
going the right way and I'm very uh the
way I walked up to you I do that and ask
if I if I find that I can get some
answer from him I'll take him in the
corner and ask him that what would you
call that that trait in you up front no
ego no ego absolutely know my my lower
back is very
flexible good way better way to put it
because I asked somebody
yeah you are showing that you are ready
to bend your ego is
low and uh yeah so that's textile for me
and garments
was did so well that I didn't even know
how to cost garment so if you're in Zara
and I had so my first collection I did
is I took some Fabrics from hind ma
theater
ladies all these chicken Fabrics in bomb
Bombay just picked up anything filled a
car went to Davi did some some block
printing on it for Zara made some shirts
no I just first made it then I called
them up and I went and showed them they
were like stun I said it's a temple That
Jag it's a mad place you know they have
a very simple
philosophy in the
company someone's coming from China it
takes him 24 hours to come here someone
from India takes 18 hours 16 hours to
come come here because there's no direct
flight to span a so everybody's ready to
come here and show them this F with that
work on it right you designers cannot
dream that okay we've got the papis to
release whatever is shot in Milan and
all of that because now the phones are
your freedom of speech earlier they had
to be like those kind of thing and those
are paid guys who give the images out
and
uh so they cannot refuse somebody and
why do you think is that because he's
coming he's taking the trouble to come
and show you a bag of 4,500
garments I'll relate it to you if
someone is coming in from Korea to show
you design of bottles every week five
times five new guys are coming and
showing you bottles of
designs why would you even dream of
saying
no why would you even create a a great
great C why would you create a wall in
your office
saying
exactly that's
the then why what else is to learn from
um index one learning you mentioned is
uh no meetings can be refused I take
unregistered numbers I take it because I
just think someday a vendor is calling
me and they
said I
said their logic is very simple okay U
this has got a skewed tailored pocket
it's done by hand this can't be stitched
the designer has to find this and he has
has to listen that the Japanese guy is
saying something and he has to take it
back and you do what you want to do
behind so my shirts would go like they
made they have a 100,000 ft showroom in
the office blank white like a clinic
like a lab and they're building the
collection for the next season which is
9 months later so they come and they say
okay we thinking about these city name
boys and Graphics someone has thought
we've built a board and luckily he comes
with this t-shirt and I go with this
t-shirt I go down to the it's a closed
private area oh it fits well come back
and while they're walking up only they
re Russia okay Europe fine us done
40,000 pieces one color done no
PO you pack your bag you leave you start
production while while you sit in the
car you've already started taking the
Yar booking closing I'm I'm loving this
and and they're very fast and that's why
probably they are the most Innovative
and they are able to turn things around
and bring the best spe their speed is
simple that we are not creating bombs
there's no mistake here that red and red
wire got connected to the yellowed will
explode whereas you talk about the
American businesses of Brands and
everything their Sops and their
methodology their books their Bible they
give you to read Zara never inspected my
factory for 12 years they never even
visited where I am and when they give
you a order and I asked them once that
what if you don't get your shipment on
time so that's your loss you lost
business from index so trust is also
another very key part of their you lost
index and your blue didn't come now
we've already bought three times more
because we already know some shipment
gets cancelled some flood happens some
political crisis ship has not comeing
over our time and we have a wall to
create of all these pieces on your wall
that you see has to come at one time in
the store that's and when they give you
an order for 40,000 pieces do they pay
up from FR nothing
nothing and 90 days so the credit line
in our business is 90 days so if you
fail it's on but you can discount it uh
from the Swiss bank which is their
credit line at 1% per anom I only worked
with Europe all my life and from 2004 I
had a beautiful chance uh 2005 actually
to start uh two brands in Italy uh Miss
604 man and because these Spanish
designers go here and there so they try
to explain them that he's the vendor he
can come and do it I created 60 man I
created garini everyone knows Miss 60
the Italian brand for women bread very
successful why Miss 60 so diesel was
coming up and uh which was with Renzo
and replay was always there like replay
is like tataa of fashion M yeah it's
there it doesn't move it doesn't try to
be over smart it stays classic it has
the truest jeans the best jeans in the
world till today the classic Italian
jeans and was this the first time you
got like real Financial Independence 25
to 37 with Zara good money my My
independence of Finance is much earlier
Zara and Italian for me the the the two
to four cres was also very serious money
I would so with Zara it was like I would
walk off uh and I love calculating my
profit at least 10 times I have to do
that how much would you make per year
during the Zara era when you were 25
till you were 37 15 15 10 15 crores a
year 10 15 crores a year yeah that's
serious
money so and we're talking 20 years ago
account for inflation it's probably yeah
but now probably few million it was
always a 30 35% business for me take
home and uh it it came by mistakes like
I don't know how to cost this garment
I've just come from textile to
appar and I would just say $13 garment
cost $4 $5 M and they would bargain and
say 12 so at that time I
would that Trend got set and it was Euro
the currency had just come in m
they moved out for five seven years to
Dollars that's when you started losing a
bit then Global competition primar
coming in when primar came to Spain they
all became tough because they own Pand
bear berska lefties primar uh Zara oo
Zara home and they're told about nine
Brands star varas what's your learning
from this time that
someone who is 21 today can use looking
to start a fashion brand I think this if
you want to start a fashion brand
ever uh first the Pinnacle of course is
creativity you have to have a nag you
cannot say that if I'm successful go and
make a fashion brand tomorrow which
every most of the guys are trying to do
it knack for you have to have creativity
you have to you have to look fashionable
before even thinking what is creativity
you both said this how do I Define
creativity give me a wall and ask
someone for example when he's saying
I'll rearrange your furniture right now
in a different manner will be
creative and and it's it's about
actually giving the presence of mind to
that subject someone like you will say
why am I doing this why was even given
that task my mind is somewhere else I'm
a number guy is it your ability to move
away from Conformity that you saying is
creativity I would leave the furniture
this way because yes because confirmity
is
yes I would Define it as the
ability of letting things
evolve
in your mind differently from convention
different from convention something
that's evolving in your mind you're able
to Envision it and then possibly create
something out of it at
least paintings even the products that I
create that's that's yeah but in the
mind people like him maybe I'm sorry I'm
just judging you over and over again
because I just feel that you're the math
side of the man so in the brain you have
a creative side and you have a
multiplier side sometime you leave
multiplying because you love the
creative side so that's what I do my
business from then to now my office is
white because I paint it three times a
[Music]
year
staircase because I have to see colors
and I people have to understand colors
in my office and people have to believe
in colors in my office we can't have any
other color as such so it has to be
white high maintenance but yes also
learned from my dad he would paint the
house every year so you it would come
from him but tell me something for
example do you have to look at colors to
get a design out of it or can you
visualize them and just by thinking
create something out of it and then put
it to practice
both but that's creativity right how do
you bring a certain emotion to life that
makes the other person who's
experiencing it one more time uh get
some nostalgic feeling right something
that they have experienced in the past
and they're able to remember that and
bringing I think I think I would Define
creativity like that
no creativity is such
a it's such a common word but a hard
word to Define okay 37 index Journey
finishes why does it the entire Europe
experience for me kind of dies at 36 37
38 it was like a because the margins are
going down the European crisis currency
dollar is they want to trade in dollars
though they in Europe they want to hedge
and make money out of that
transition uh France was doing very good
for me Denmark I was the uh very large
vendor for Jack and Jones uh that was a
very same time I was uh I just went to
Copenhagen and I saw another brand on
the wall again Jack and Jones so with
Jack and Jones also same thing Yellow
Pages
diary found Jack and Jones called them
up from Copenhagen went to B it's
another
Village uh 30 acres of land two single
single floor Huts made which are all
brand offices LC there
shipping
[Music]
Department outstanding design manmade
from India slept on Kolkata streets
found a Chinese wallet which say Jack
and Jones so he labeled his brand called
wait wait who Mr truce Paulson he's the
richest Danish man the guy who created
Jack and Jones from Kata because he is
Danish but he would come to Kolkata make
G and carried in a suitcase to Denmark
and sell really yeah and that's his
story and we have a fairly large Dan
business incredible the connections
between India and Denmark Sweden and
he's the richest uh Danish man and uh of
course he owns he has four 2,000
wouldn't the founders of Lego be the
noest people there no it's him in
apparels and he started like that and he
started like that young days coming in
Kata making G East India
Company
banana he was selling it without a label
he would fly down and keep doing this
and finally someone told
him there was a Chinese wallet
jackes he would sleep in the factories
in Kata he was very emotionally attached
to the Chinese wallet Jack Andes
China Chinese have a big fair
skin yeah fatuation really you are an
actor who comes in it's in meetings
because you're white you get paid to
come there so you're not a board member
you don't speak nothing just to make the
meetings look
good
interesting like being white is a job in
China being white is a
job go so that's how it uh so he he was
a great man and in that time he wanted
to take the Indian tram he want to inher
it he runs a lot of schools in
Rajasthan uh in uh he's the largest
founder uh of the largest fund for
tsunami in Tamil Nadu still he operates
that so did a great great business again
they have a department called express
the missing part of the buyers which
they didn't buy and the season is
running so who can give you 45 days
delivery so our lead time in our
business is
generally uh 100 to 140 days from order
placing to Shipp shipment on the vessel
and uh we I learned the nag of uh things
from index kind of a process that you
can ship anything within even 45 days
and how do you do that uh firstly don't
interact too much with the buyers is it
okay it's it not okay so when I first
took their order and I took a an order
of a shirt with that embroidery and they
said we bought it 30,000 pieces I'm
supposed to send them and this for
approval the button for approval the
quality for approval
the thread approval and they called me
up I said you think we have people here
to sit and approve all these things we
liked your shirt we gave that shirt back
to you you just have to make 30,000
shirts I said but these are the
processes I said I don't know we have
nobody to even file this what all you've
sent to us and every other brand in the
world will sit and do that filing
job test here test with that chemical
test with this I said it's a garment
here do you think that would have
interfered with the quality of products
that they were delivering it's a okay I
was a I was luck by charm kind of a
situation that I had a small Factory in
Bangalore I moved from Bangalore I moved
to Bangalore because of the factory that
I put up here uh there was another thing
in between I took the largest loan of
our family of 37 cres and uh put up a
factory in Bangalore first land to buy
uh would you be the first garment
manufactured having a factory in
Bangalore no no no no there K moans and
shahis of the world but you invested
money in buying the land to set up your
own everything here when file to file
vidhan s vikas s all the K uh 2004 and
five how important do you think this is
ability to leverage risk taking ability
very important for an entrepreneur
absolutely I mean
uh let me put it in a in a better way
that I have a set of family and
mentality right it it's it's a way of of
thinking a risk taking and there are
always an outlier I am an outlier and I
said I want to take a loan and I didn't
badly sell it to my dad but I just gave
him a very different
equation that is that part I didn't
understand or I didn't correlate with
that and I kept putting this can you
explain it for the audience the concept
of depe ation when you start a business
like that one or this one both both oh
that one was very simple I was putting
100 bucks and I thought someone
explained
me my loan was 8 and a half% minus 5%
for tough scheme textile upgradation
scheme and which was resulted at 4%
subsidy after subsidy
so and then
so the way you I looked at that was like
you know some god- gift check is coming
here in the middle for depreciation and
dad didn't this was too much for him to
he just trusted me blindly I
said and how much money did you have
when you borrowed 37 crws I had
uh so my my part was money in your net
money to your name in this world oh uh
just one apartment uh of three crores
which also I borrowed from my dad that
one I I literally told him I want to
borrow this after marriage I wanted to
move out to an apartment at Bly seaface
and I said I'll pay you this back in
three years but I did it in one year and
uh that was in when I was 25 first year
two years after marriage and uh and
after five years of that I went and put
this Factory and uh so maybe five 10
Crow what you had to your name 10 10ish
I feel like this is the biggest whenever
I talk to people who are very successful
like you
guys often it comes down to risk taking
ability who is willing to put it all on
the line yeah otherwise it doesn't
happen Okay we were at 37 CR loan when
you had 10 CR to your name I was I was
devastated and screwed that time of this
loan uh I thought I could make a cheaper
Factory buying my own steel getting it
converted making a PB structure that
factory design was designed by me
because I was stranded in Hamburg
airport and I L that airport so I
said I landed up making an airport there
m so it's a 200 ft M ceiling and and uh
six curve handers
hangers with carts moving inside
everything automated put the works there
someone should make a movie on your life
I know fascinating I made all the s
machines which came from Italy I said
they make it in blue color and I have a
i a setback with
blue so uh you change the color of so I
said you should be all Ferrari red so
you are from Italy so you have to do
that other I don't pay
you technical problems or I want to go
see your factory they made red machines
and uh and uh we did that the entire
building is uh is a submission of design
what replay Factory is because I
manufactured for replay as well and it's
basically a coal Factory all brick
building it still has the tracks for
moving the trolleys in metal the war
time in the reception going to the
office and things like that
so I said I want a brick building and
that's when I saw the Builder vangog
total environment Mr Kamal Sagar who's
no less in
creativity uses only Indian materials to
build his homes for consu customers
apart yeah so I saw his project there
took a picture uh got caught by
security
because so drew the whole thing but the
factory the way I expected it at the
same I buil my house here and then
suddenly the water was stopped dad said
to hell with you if nothing is nothing
is moving after this what's happening
here so that three years was stress
crying weeping early morning 6:00 in the
factory getting it up building it myself
because I took I didn't want to waste
money on contractors I would have saved
maybe 3 5 months earlier which today I
don't today I just be finish it fast let
my turnover
start so that factory created a huge
impression in Bangalore this is coming
so often in your story no ego Shameless
Relentless is a super power I came to
your house also like
that about you guys I to just quickly
see I said uh take we'll do that and
then uh comes away uh I went to say
almost a one and a half year two years
down one and a half year of depression
kind of a thing because why going to
give my designs there 16 years living
almost 8 years uh 6 to 8 months in
Europe Hotels beds
flights I almost landed up being at 19
to 22 flights a month so I just gave up
all that Milan sounding quite nice to me
going to Milan Madrid being on
flight it was it was not exciting at all
not at all I mean come on you have seen
any of the very exciting so to save
money in like earlier days I used to
sleep in the railway station under the
heater lamp like this uh put my bag for
$2 in the but you were making 10 15 CR a
year2 smoking was my problem not the
drinking bar and straight train next
country but for I I have a question when
you were setting this Factory up and
that seems to be like a very
important project that you picked up
right all through your journey
2005 yeah it it was a brilliant project
of my life so was it because you wanted
your own manufacturing or was it that
the no so I had a small Factory I wanted
it large so there are ancillaries like
in your manufacturing right I had
everybody has a garment manufacturing
Factory I said I do garment dying I have
to send it outside I want G dying inside
I do printing like this I send this
panel outside I want to print inside I
do embroidery outside I want to do this
inside so I put all these ancillaries
inside the factory a very large black
Temple what does stylish mean like if
you were to say if you can uh coordinate
your attire uh is it the colors that go
with each other is it the fabric I'll
give you a simple thing if I'm if I was
in black today and if I had any small
piece of black cloth with these uh uh
dandelion on them I would probably have
it inside here showing a bit here and so
I've styled myself today I've kind of
embraced basically you pay more time and
attention mother is a stylist leftover
food or whatever
ingredients she'll style something and
cook something out of it whatever is
available basically how do you put how
do you put stuff together is style yes
fash wearing clothes as well fashion is
today okay straight jeans tone jeans
Broad jeans fine it's today it's not
tomorrow but there are guys who wear
those same broad leg jeans they've never
left it since ' 80s but they'll also go
to the skinny today they'll also wear a
bell because their style ction says
today I want to be like this okay let's
go to 372 rare rabbit I'll tell you the
appetite for rare rabbit in the market
right now okay I was at a event I I
actually even didn't tell you this I was
at a event with some
investors One Sovereign fund Southeast
Stan country uh their India CE or
something like that was there he comes
up to me and he says why don't you
reduce your allocation to rare rabbit so
we can do more I obviously said you
[Music]
know for me to reciprocate but there is
that much so that you invest in there's
that much happen so that he can invest
more in you I didn't want to even raise
that much I didn't want to raise at all
that comes as a different thing but for
the guys who are 20 and
uh
when when you're getting depressed out
of not getting charm of Designing going
there and they're trying to take the
same garments out of Cambodia and then
China and Bangladesh and you're getting
just defeated how much you're not going
to catch the callers and I was not
getting the juice and I always had that
that there has to be juice in the game
I'm I can't be that startup blood I'm
not I am kakur I'm not all these uh that
that breed of uh or that or the breed of
mine is very different and my
backgrounds came differently to me and
their backgrounds
came switch how can you take so long to
find a switch you know so they cannot
someone who doesn't cannot make 2 plus
two make money I
think it's for me I don't know how to
swallow that yeah and one day I was
standing at Forum mall and I was like
I've created Brands and why men don't
look good here yeah style wise and what
are these Brands doing actually when I
was then also to come out of this
European business I told all these
European guys please give me your Indian
Office business I'll change everything
for you I don't want to travel and all
of that I did all of that it created
good lines for all the fashion brands
here and and I was expensive for them
they could not afford me or things like
that and I said gidea let's create a
brand and here I come after 2 years of
depression almost that uh I'm not happy
with my working and nothing I was quite
suddenly out of the picture and I said I
want to create a brand and what should
it be and it said I came up with rare
rabbit and only
because uh rabbit is a sexual mammal it
multiplies the fastest in the world and
uh did you like the sexual cont
connotation or the multip part as well
as the multiplication because I
multiplied Thrice for my my own
legacy so and uh but men in India should
be rare and respect the sexuality and be
rare in that you are a rabbit but be
rare and the the least you can do is to
dress so that you can address the your
opposite that's the whole funa behind it
is like I'm doing it already bro and you
had Mr vidanta once saying that of
vidanta Mr agal that to address you have
to dress it was in his fores Magazine
first he actually dresses well do you
think styling in India can be a big
business
opportunity it is that's why it's uh
probably so we curate uh men's fashion
in a very different we do it for India
the way you said that hydration cannot
come from Korean recipe because I know
it's very cold there and they need less
absorbency and we drive faster we
equatorial belt similarly our tummy is 2
Ines higher and uh than any average
person so our last button is to be
relaxing on that it's horizontal not
vertical and when I started the brand I
I just put in a
line and uh I went I created that line I
invested money in that nothing one and a
half CR 25,000 pieces just made it color
blocked it because if you go to our
store you'll see color block walking in
us if he's what he I'm only Navy always
mostly so I will not go to a particular
section of my store have I styled myself
well yeah you can say that he's just
being
kind if you want tips then I can like
for example and I would like to say it
because he said not to be kind to him
for me gr and navy don't go together
it's just what goes
best
monoton does monotone
mean monotone is monotone is only luxury
we call it high and low mhm so um
monotone is you high and low is not the
right way of dressing I'm glad you
didn't ask about me the beige and the
black and the light gray and the black
or something so no hos it has to be more
we were in the Inception story of rare
rabbit styling I said this is a lot of
loss because I've seen all the fashion
houses of India and all they do is all I
thought that we we create a structure of
buying we create clothes and we have an
actor or a face to the brand and we try
to sell garments and it's been done
repeatedly in the country and neither I
have the money or I'm going to or or the
nag actually after maybe the factory
investment that I can go and get a
celebrity phase and then do you think
that works for someone Young starting a
brand paying an influencer actor never
no no why is that for me uh you'll think
differently because it's a women
category on influencer I think
differently influencers different even
influencer in fashion I would think
different yeah but I my office believes
in it I don't why uh for me it's uh
shortlived the way I engage myself on
Instagram I'm also a
consumer uh I'm too fast and I need new
new new new new so so it's I don't know
how much does it resonate to convert and
understand the brand um I
follow among all the actors maybe uh Mr
bangas diari and amitab ban for two
different one is Legacy in my life and
uh one
is uh the new I think the new man of
substance who speaks great so uh PTI
some people on social media tell me I
look like you if you act but is
exceptional depth but yeah I think you
could pull off very well in mirzapur I
can I can I take it as aent he he will
100% compliment someone should cast him
no but director can move things and they
need a first cut and that up style look
it can pull it very well you can then
you have to change a lot have you
tried so what worked for air rabbit
there's a thousand people trying
rigidity it's very important uh explain
rigidity rigidity for me is that I'm the
only we the only brand which has no logo
on the chest because I never wor a brand
on my chest all my life whatever wealth
I would have earned in my life I never
wore a brand which someone can recognize
what I'm wearing and that's what
probably Italians taught me or that's
what Spanish fashion taught me they are
never on the face I had a choice of
doing jeans wear or formal brand this is
the only two fashion concept existing in
India there's nothing called smartware
and and uh which exists in Europe it
doesn't exist in uh in the rest of the
world there is no so there's
jeans uh there's business they call
formal in India and there's a smart the
smart dressing doesn't exist in India
and I said I can't do formal because I
have to compete with such legacies here
and I can't do genes because it it
caters to youth youth that I've
been
cig
bike I can
burn and uh to my equation of mind
because I knew how that two and two
works is that if I don't have a
multiplier I if I don't get that GP I'm
not going to sustain to sell what is GP
gross margin gross profit and to do that
GP everything around it has to be
perfect so my store has to be designed
the way I imagine the Europeans see it
and there's another underling message
for all designers or creative people who
want to do anything in India is that do
it from what you have seen or perceived
from the West because you're trying to
breave a culture here you're not bre if
you're making a jutti of chandigar or
you're making a chi of Rajasthan then
bring that culture here then make your
store look
atal
sandone because that that Essence comes
from as a juice but if you're trying to
say the word Western World then you have
to be resonating it to a story relling
communication of design holistic
approach and the difference that you're
trying to First create like oversized
t-shirts is selling very well today what
you're wearing the boxy fits but it's
already a clutter now now if someone has
to come with
this he has to be very adaptive that
I'll make the same boxy but I'm going to
come with city names today tomorrow can
I use the word just Buton because it's
not
registered the k something like that how
does find G like what you're seeing how
do I find it's intution it's your it
comes out of desperate mistakes most of
the business I think are created by your
own realization that I miss it in my
life uh I think most of them in product
at least uh unless I don't know what the
backgrounds of the uh fmcg companies
otherwise have been commercial ones but
the new ones anything I would say it
comes from that this is what my style
was it became brand the blue orange
became a brand MH I respect them the j
walking because that's the cult that's
the way work the design I think these
guys would have probably been somewhere
in the world or got hold of that one
piece and they said That's My Style that
style became so popular among the
friends do you think because the
clothing Market is so penetrated today
in terms of access you have to hit a
niche and play that so rightly said in
your lines only we are a clothing
manufacturing country
we're not a fashion business country we
don't create fashion we don't buy design
sell fashion other than the designers
that we have who are doing I think the
best in the world also they're world
ranking we have Dior making their uh
their entire marriage gowns in Bombay
that's also embroidered in India I mean
I have seen back in those day Armani
sending the suits lafel just the silk
from Italy to lakau to do one embroidery
of chicken work and goes flying back
there to stitch it with a suit there so
that's how they and they go that
mile to and they in those days when
there's no Instagram and all of that
they were doing it from an archived book
and a designer there is as eager bird
who's taking that trouble to go to the
the the Instagram which is the library
then picking up something and trying to
throw that knowledge in the Armani's
office that I want to do this it's
available in India it's in
lakau and they said okay talk to Global
office Hong Kong they'll connect you to
your buying office in Delhi we'll send
it to them they'll get this embroidery
[Music]
done EMB what was the Breakthrough point
for R rabbit I would say the breaking
point to answer is that uh when we were
stuck on our business uh so the biggest
challenge we faced is getting real
estate
that's why I was asking her again again
in your industry do they pick up that
call and uh I proposed this once when I
didn't have one store also with one of
the largest Builders and developers that
you'll have such millions of square fets
give 3,000 square F feet in a corner of
a mall for young guys to come and
demonstrate their talent without signing
those Loi big big Pages just give him so
much table one hanger is that how malls
work do they care which brand is coming
so much or is it about the rate per
square feet I'm trying to sign or get no
they have to create a
ecosystem they cannot have five rows of
chocolate and ice cream and coffee shops
it's an ecosystem which I've learn and
it's a very hard business they are also
cracking they so how do if I start they
trusted rare rabbit they give a store
and imagine nobody comes in there so I
kind of bring down their footfall and if
they do 20 mistakes on a floor that
floor is dead the 21st store will not
get rented because that person said
foot there are some malls who do Man
Woman mix they're not dissecting
properly so if I'm a brand what can I do
to be more attractive to a
mall like I'm 21 I start a brand I want
store space impossible is there no hack
I would not say the word impossible just
forget it maybe in tier one mall can't I
go to a tier two Mall forget it really
so you're telling me if a mall has empty
store space and I'm willing to pay the
rent they won't give me they yeah see
and they're not wrong who are you you're
a kid who started with a garment someone
paying them the rent yeah but your store
will
open
but he's running a ecosystem so what you
seem to be telling me is you have to do
this only only as a suggestion or advice
whatever I have learned from is go to a
High Street pull up your sleeves go open
a store High Street on the roads I mean
like indan nagar is a High Street and
there you will get Space yeah okay last
two points from you hack for somebody
trying to start a clothing Brand This is
actually personal interest to me the
hack for someone young find a difference
give us some examples of differences you
think might work today today khadi khadi
we are the only country in the world mix
this fiber and this Yan you think going
back to India using bandani that Kara
khadi putting these together so that's
women's side of the kadi you know uh
which is very highly embellished still
with a lot of work which is very women
MH the true true kadi in India it's a
textile Gandhi kadi the Gandhi
kadi it is the best cotton you can touch
there's K's cotton kadi is nothing but
uh raw cotton which has got seeds still
in it not removed the seed uh kins are
not removed from a minut it's a little
rough to touch it's rough uh the organic
if this was an organic this would be if
recycled then it is going to be rough uh
you Dy it with only vegetable dieses and
everything you spin it this way by hand
like Gandhi g you on the chakra yeah and
so you're very uneven yarn and then you
weave it by hand it's the softest fabric
it's the most organic fa fabric that you
want to be in and there are Villages
living on that today uh they're
desperate to get even money today raw
mango is doing a brilliant job the sis
are expensive and today the advice to a
20- year is go and try to touch khadi
because it's the only Fabric in the
world which only exists in India there's
no other every other fabric is global
this is only Indian interesting idea we
should we should try t-shirts in
Khali t-shirts
t-shirt you'll have shorts leave it by
hand
shorts It's a rigid fabric you can make
this I'm so intrigued because I think
apart from beauty if there's anything
else that I ever think I would
want to build or try my hands on would
be
fashion and not that I've thought about
it much but everything that you're
saying is sort
of building a story in my mind so when
you say kadi I'm already thinking can
kadi be built a brand out of kadi can it
be built at scale would it be at also it
can be built at a scale yeah 100% in
India and I think before I retire it
would be done the cloth is would the
pricing would be premium right yeah it's
econom be so and patriotism is in right
now patriotism is in right now uh so we
all wear denims blue denims we all think
denim is Western right the denim comes
from indigo blue denim is basically the
NES it's the NES which is France because
the twi we was first woven there the
blue added in that was by the Americans
who took the blue Leaf from Tamil Nadu
so our Leaf is when it
dries it it becomes blue that green leaf
becomes
blue and we make we are the only country
who grows organic denim so advise to
them they should find these kind
of and fashion designing is not cut
paste pieces here and there it's about
creating a complete right look and to
get the margin do a good storytelling
alongside with it m you have to sell the
story with it you just sold your story
being a a financial wizard Guy saying
that 6 hours charity City recyclable
organic you have to speak
something story most important very
important that's where IP sits that
story comes story is IP story is the
biggest St the emotional connect with
your consumer today's IP which goes
beyond products like even for you like
that yeah story sells absolutely
absolutely I think I was able to
establish that connect first the story
started selling before the product
started selling so in our store you will
get fragrance in all 120 stores the same
our office smells the same uh we get
complaints uh when our Omni Channel goes
that youve sent us used garments because
our clothes smell off so you have a lot
of perspiration when you suw right there
are
69 110 people who handle one
garment and it's their perspiration
which is coming from what they've eaten
and if they wedge or non wed is a
different smell from your skin as well
pay attention to detail yeah so you have
to neutralize your fragrance of your
each garment when you wear your TT do
that your store has to smell so if the
store is smelling then the Garment will
smell less yeah no it takes that but how
do you do it online when you're selling
it online so when it goes Omni order and
it goes from store people think we have
sent them wor garments so they Lodge a
complaint for that so we are busy always
explaining that it's been our so these
are some rigidity of your business plan
you should never deviate with give me
another word for rigidity I think
ad be be be core be stuck to your core
concept
particular no I think you I see I
designed the brand saying the rare
rabbit will be written here on the belly
because Italians if they wear a
blazer their name generally is here
you're willing to take a different and
then you don't even deviate yes you you
take a contrarian View and back it fully
so fellow friend of mine in this
business he said Manish we to messed it
up
we you manag to keep keep that noise
away I so uh because you said I'm rare
or I never listened to them we are the
only brand in the country we don't do
Road shows we don't show our collection
and take bookings from the entire trade
of 700 people who we 700 points we sell
today we don't show our collection and
take orders from them we just send what
we think is right for them for their
Market because our AI uh our research
our understanding
would you say would you like phrase it
in a manner saying client doesn't know
what he truly wants in India for
sure and at the same time India is
according to me the most hungry country
to to ask for give me more and give me
new just don't give me the
same and what's the cycle of
innovation so in uh I'll give you a I'll
give you a better
understanding in Zara Innovation is
everyday our office is every day in
India fashion is two season divided you
buy once and you buy twice second fall
winter spring we buy every
day it doesn't stop if I've seen this I
can go back and I'll
say so for example let's say you've
designed this shirt and you've listed it
on online in your stores etc for how
long do you think it'll stay relevant
till you have to change not more than 2
and a half 3 months 2 and a half 3
months
that's very quick more than that that's
very quick and we are the largest online
in the country not metaphorically but in
genuine
terms also because this also so all our
businesses are by accident and people of
20 should not vary of that and scared of
that I didn't get stores I have 25,000
pieces in my house I had to start a
website I started the website 2016 I
think I was the only one as a website
there to design that I'm very particular
about my font so my font doesn't change
on our website Our Deck letters anything
you write will be the same font you use
this word a lot
particular is attention to detail yeah
yeah we don't I mean it's so but you get
these kind of hindrances and you should
not
move because that's how you stand a bit
do you think chains are
in
similar not bad quite je obious so yeah
this this chain actually is made by one
friend of mine called shti her husband
is one of the fittest men who will ever
meet his name is Manish you know he's my
table yeah so he would just be in the
gym like if between the time of 5:00
p.m. to 8:00 p.m. he would be in the gym
wow hours I would go in between from 600
to 6:45 Manish is there you go at 8:00
Manish is there you go at 5 Manish is
there he is something else yeah but she
makes some interesting jewelry
outstanding jewelry yeah and she only
makes one one one thing and she gave me
the Ser the best so she customizes it
for you she only makes one one thing her
name if you want diamond jewelry that's
the woman according to me yeah she it's
not for all this I had this looks really
good yeah I had somebody I lost recently
made it yeah she told me that yeah
what's your channel of choice now is it
digital is it retail we are 50 store
store because country Dynamics roads are
getting built malls are getting up uh
what great Builders are building today
as terms of mouth it's crazy it's where
all they are doing what all they're
doing is like he loves the stores right
like I you can see it I can see but I
have a very different statistic going on
in my mind and I was reading we play our
playlist music for all 6 160 stores from
our office really you control the music
of your store centrally is it
centrally okay so what I'm getting
takeway is quite complicated the you're
a complicated man easy
be straightforward you'll be you'll make
everything easy you're a avoidant
attachment
type do you worry about being vulnerable
or showing your
insecurities no I don't no I I'm the
most open person you can ever get to
know about anything that's why he said
he has the most flexible back about
anything again creative parallel with
you I think I think attention to detail
is something that came across while you
were speaking many many times from the
perfume in all your stores to the music
to where the buttons are Indian waste is
2 in
higher so whoever is attempting this
needs to pay that much attention to
detail to build in the space that young
21y old and also keep looking around
your own
Society story most important also IP
your story is as important as as the
product if not more yeah
absolutely another big thing that came
across from Manish no ego Shameless
Relentless is a superp power ability or
willingness to bend your back very very
important can't have shame when you're
asking for business and and not to
forget India is a very colorful country
so don't hide from
color and I think in a world can be your
superpower say again in a world full of
ego that can actually become your
superpower the world full of ego yeah
not having one
yeah yeah moving on to rates I shouldn't
have come interjected it was doing all
right I loved being a spectator I came
to you last because you're very popular
thank you I read in some magazine that
you're the most eligible bachelor in
India I thought that was you before
before so you get crashed his house PR I
I should have I haven't yet when I go to
Delhi next I'll get please please I'd
love to host you so rsh is a very
unassuming sweet amicable person
basically he doesn't show his real self
to anyone somebody so nice can't be so
successful fundamental belief in life I
agree so the mask that he puts on is so
strong and it's always on which must be
so much work that he must be tired so he
has too many masks
no no no I think n first gives you so
much love he say sweet unassuming very
amicable and then goes for the kill like
okay tell us about your personality I
think you told some of it so I'll borrow
mhm I think uh calm I try to make sure
that there's just a sense of calm as in
myself and then around me if possible
but if I can't keep it around me at
least inside of me um why I like it that
way you never get angry no I do get
angry sometimes but do you emote when
you get angry do you show
it yes yes but uh I think um it is not
as volatile I think uh I'll try to put
it in words uh I try to put it in words
more than in actions I think when was
the last time you cried when was the
last time I
cried I think I cried when uh I had the
I had I had my baby in my hands yeah I
think think um it's it was hard not to
cry then uh but yeah I think before that
before that I cry probably every U few
months sometimes out of no reason
sometimes out of happiness I think um
one thing that actually I know I I cried
I cry a lot
so I
deeply because of my upbringing family
and so on um believe in existence of God
so whenever I'm in U uh you know a place
of worship or even at my own home at at
the place I worship I think sometimes I
end up crying probably for no reason can
I extrapolate and ask you why you
believe in
God I
think it's a fun to put in words but I
think uh there have been multiple I
genuinely personally believe that uh I
did not deserve all I have gotten all my
life so I'm just genuinely thankful and
I feel like there's probably a greater
power which has just given me this
opportunity uh so I think that's
probably and again I'm just trying to
play it back but that's probably the
reason can I tell you something that is
slightly similar between me and you
is we've been on this train of youngest
a youngest B youngest C because I think
even though I'm significantly older than
you I think in our own times we were
young at doing
something uh a very natural parallel to
that something I face deeply right is I
have imposer complex in so many
different facets of my life deep down I
believe
I have gotten something I have not
worked enough
for uh I also believe I'm not the
smartest I'm not the most hardworking
because there is a lot of tangible
evidence for this I can find you 10,000
people who are smarter than me and more
hardworking than me absolutely uh we
happen to be in that position in a very
circumstantial manner yeah uh belief in
something that you have never touched or
felt like God I'll probably get trolled
for this trolled as but belief in
something that you haven't touched is
also a byproduct of our
circumstance when you say God what is
the concept of God to you what do you
mean by
God uh in my view just a greater power
than
humans I think that's uh my concept of
God are you taking the religious
connotation I think
um I know there is a fine line between
these but I would say spiritual not
religious so organized religion no
spirituality yes is that what you're
saying no I'm not like for me personally
I think um the belief in the power of
spirituality is higher but what is
spirituality I often ask people to
Define
spirituality each one tells me a
different answer what is R's and that is
what it is supposed to be I think for me
it is uh like I mentioned to you I think
you may have heard about uh in a lot of
books people write uh this person is
God-fearing um and I think uh what it
basically means to me is
that there is somebody who's keeping a
sense of a check a check or an oversight
on us and is a greater power than us and
has the abilities to do things which
humans cannot do themselves you mean in
terms of punishment because your
derivative word Was Fear I wouldn't say
uh fear
but uh I think more a Guiding Light sort
of a way to make sure that you can reach
your purpose uh for whatever you are
around I mean uh I I liked what you
mentioned I was when I was coming by I
was watching your recent video in which
you mentioned about uh we take ourselves
too seriously and um you know that
fundamentally you know you're around for
a certain point of time you do the best
you can but the the concept conceptt of
legacy is flawed uh inherently I think I
I fully agree with that so I think the
whole point is um for all the time
you're around you try to do the best you
can uh despite like you mentioned I
agree with your point that you mentioned
earlier which is the conscious mind
tries to do all the right things but
subconsciously You're Still Human so
that so so it's like a constant battle
right that you want to make sure that
you're consciously doing as much to
pursue your purpose as possible so I
think that's how I would put
spirituality a question I did you fear
God or submit to God much later in life
or it was always your it was actually
due to upbringing yeah I think it
upbring it kind of changed for me in the
last 10
years so I grew up in a place in southa
place called Raa it's um I think 60% of
the population is adasi which is tribals
right um there is a temple near a house
uh it's called majaran Temple but she's
the tribal goddesses who effectively
protects our town it's said and there's
history behind it and so on so for
examplea you would have heard about
Cyclones very
often so so people say that the reason
why there's been no floods in our town
ever is because she's protected us now
many people may have different opinions
about it but I think as I grew up uh
around there um it just sort of became a
sense of Bel um uh that that got
captured now it may it may be rational
or not uh is a separate story but it's
just my personal belief as as an outcome
so for example uh many people uh used to
notice this I used to uh at work uh take
off my shoes and go inside for the
longest time and I at some point of time
I changed it I think 3 4 years back but
it's for the longest time uh people used
to sort of there used to be a joke that
you know he's at work by just noticing
that the shoes are
outside so um so that so but that's I
think that's deeply personal to me I
think it's probably the first time I'm
talking about it at all but uh it's
deeply personal to me I don't think I
impose it on anyone it's everybody's own
choice frankly but it's just something I
personally believe in but the clarity in
in the manner that you're articulating
is very
refreshing cuz you're not being defens
Ive or aggressive in your stance but
you're still being very concise and
clear I think at the end of the day
that's all one can hope for it but start
from childhood so let's get to know you
like we got to know them you're not
convicted no but look I'm I'm really
enjoying this format right I think it's
just so refreshing to not just go
through what nikil said is a rehearsed
part and just sort of quote through the
uh like just get to know individually
and and so on so I I I really enjoyed
listening to both of you and your
stories so I grew up
um I was born in a place called bisam
Kat most people wouldn't have heard
about it it's a uh Village in the Rara
District where I lived after uh we have
four siblings and the youngest of the
lot uh I.E the most loved um uh among
the siblings uh the eldest is almost 8
years older than me so eldest is a
sister um so there's quite a bit of age
Gap um so uh you know and uh typically
um uh parents or especially mom but both
of them used to encourage better
education as a way of being able to
graduate out of the town we grew up in
because in some way education is sort of
uh Brahman family
no agal so Mar family but um grew up
with a very um odia kind of uh
attributes because multiple generations
of both Papa and Mom had grown up in
odisa my mom came from a village called
itam Marti near buar uh but but you know
I think there when I when I used to
speak to other people saying how long
has this family been here they say that
for as long as we can remember right
like even the oldest of people so I
don't know how but it just so happened
that they were there and and so I think
and the town is small so everybody sort
of knows each other right like almost
every family every individual will know
each other not there's no concept of
like somebody lives in the place and you
don't know who that person is
so is an alien who's alien National not
alien in the sense of an alien like you
know us forms are you an alien so I
think that so I think um uh Elder three
siblings are like Asian parents dream
engineering business school good job all
the other ticks right like marriage
children and and and all the tick
marks um and I was quite inspired by my
elder sister what did your parents do so
Mom was a homemaker Papa had a small
shop initially uh where he would sell
like uh grocery products and so on uh
but later he uh joined U road
construction company as a manager uh in
in that company so anyway I think
um growing up I was more the rebel
relative to the uh other three kids
because of so much love one son oldest
sister middle so eldest is a sister
second is also a sister third is a
brother who's three and a half years
older than me and I'm the fourth so do
you work with any of them no so the
eldest sister works for one of uh the
subsidiar of S&P mhm second sister
standard in po yes uh the rating agency
the rating agencies one of their U you
companies required what are they doing
giving India such bad rating look I
think uh it's a big problem we are also
rated by moodies and fit same and what
is it now Double B minus I think we are
b-rated now but no no I think we're BB
minus as India oh sorry I was telling
the oo
rating so you know I'll tell you it's
such big problem we don't talk about it
enough every country's cost of borrowing
is dependent on how we are rated by
these three arbitrary
agencies criteria of rting six are
quantitative in nature like uh GDP rate
fiscal deficit inflation past track
record of servicing debt the other 10 or
11 parameters are arbitrary in nature
it's more coming around perception and
stuff like that and at Triple B minus
correct me if I'm wrong later but I
think it's Triple B minus now our cost
of borrowing is higher than countries
which are oneth our size let's say
kazakistan has the same rating as us or
slightly lower or
whatever slightly better rating let's
assume kazakistan has better than us I
don't think they do I think they're
slightly below us in the table if
they're able to borrow money at 5% for
infra projects building roads train
Airport whatever we land up borrowing at
62% a 20year term loan if you're
borrowing 10,000 cror in reality that
these numbers are significantly larger
than 10,000 when we are paying back at
the end of 20 years with the dollar this
10,000 we are paying back maybe 25,000
they are paying back 17 18,000 that tiny
difference in rating
changes a cost of infra significantly
and it is not just for the country right
it's also for corporations who whose
source of income is India so if you are
an Indian Corporation you may be like
any big company you don't get a a rating
because your Sovereign itself is not
rated enough but this is something we
all need to make noise about like U I
think what these three agencies together
are doing is extremely unfair and bad
very detrimental to the long-term growth
of India going back I think the eldest
sister has sort of been a s so I was
coming to everyone the second one uh is
now between jobs uh she's left uh
cognizant and because she's not joined
I'll not share but she's gone to a moved
to a consulting company uh elder brother
works for M
tree uh and I'm the uh fourth one how
have the equations between the siblings
changed because you are such an outlier
today equation among siblings how are
you guys growing up and how are you now
look I I think growing up essentially
the there was a unique uh perspective
where the eldest sister was like a
little mom of sorts right because the
age difference was so high and she was
sort of in our family the first women
who uh you know she was among uh the top
rankers in her school when she graduated
out of 10th like the overachiever uh
gazel right so she was the first one who
went to engineering school uh she got a
job uh at TCS so like our dreams at
least my dreams where this kind of
villages you explain you are coming from
or District or taluk I don't know how do
you how do your parents even think to
educate all of you with such
high pedigree I
mean is one
basic flying out all four no so and I
think a large part of it I think is
driven by as much as my parents I would
give credit to the eldest sister also so
because she pursued that path and
everyone followed then every like it
basically became like a little bit of
and every Elder and younger sibling will
relate with this if your Elder sibling
got through good grades in your class
and graduated and if the same class
teachers there they'll say look at your
elder sister or brother they did so well
and like what are you doing so it sort
of becomes a little bit of a pure
pressure right so I think she for the
first time I think um I think I was
still in my junior or middle school
between somewhere between third and
fifth grade and she had just gotten into
her um engineering school first year and
she had what was the entrepreneurship
Fest so she went to bampur which is a
place in urisa it's a bigger town uh for
her engineering
schooling so she came back during her
break and she comes and says uh we had
an entrepreneurship Fest M I had no idea
what that word meant M so that was the
first time I figured that that there is
this new word being eldest sister like
mother figure the other two yeah so I
think the younger sister second sister
was little bit like the
um person you create trouble with right
like you know uh were you naughty I I
was quite naughty I know I know of some
of the naughty things You' have done as
an adult but think dig a Little Deeper
as a child I have no idea what you're
talking about I would want to know
what's that
take deeper as a child and the brother
brother
um it was a mix of uh I would say
um learning and also that one sibling
that you fight a lot with that's a
combination right so I think so for
example uh my uh love for sports started
with him uh because he and his friends
would play sports and I wanted to be a
part of the group this again is
something I hear from a lot of
successful
entrepreneurs some affiliation to sports
I've never been able to figure out what
the connection is but actually even when
we recruit people uh we uh try and
recruit um people who have been good in
sports especially why is that do they do
better at they do very well with us
there two three reasons why I have
deciphered the outcome the first is
especially we P we'd like to get people
from team sports so we believe that
their ability to work with other people
in make sure that the team wins rather
than individual is better pursuit of
Excellence because in sports you are
competitive you want to win uh you don't
want to um sort of be average as as an
outcome would you say Clarity of thought
important for an entrepreneur I think CL
like I call myself in a company Chief
Clarity officer I think fundamentally
one of the biggest challenges I think
that's probably the similar word of
rigid that you were saying I think
having a clear answer versus saying that
um I don't know like I don't know how
it's going to come and let's derive it
out of 20 other things and or whatever
people are saying let's do it I think
that fundamentally is different I would
say this proof for any leaders you can
be an entrepreneur I think he had that
to a certain he had that and even she to
some extent right like she said this is
the kind of product I want to BU so I
think that um so you say that some of or
most or whatever some of your decisions
also come by your gut and just without
being a very derived formula let's sit
and get a calculation done or you just
feel I'm very clear it will happen and
let's look I I think uh probably given
today I've been hearing a lot of depth
in conversation I'll try and sort of go
a little bit deeper in in that construct
right so I feel that most of my
decisions are uh genuinely actually a
derivation uh of many things but uh what
comes out at the end is the gut
feeling um so uh I think how would you
define gut gut the word so so in my view
the gut feeling is a summation of
experiences I have had um um uh good or
bad uh but I have gone through some
experiences where I have learned that
well this works for me and this doesn't
work for me and sometimes what works for
me may not work for anyone else and what
works for others may not work for me and
I'm very comfortable with that I have no
uh formo of saying that well it works
for someone else
I'm I have a interest to learn why it
worked for others but uh I don't have um
the the so that's that's what I sort of
Define gut as uh from my perspective um
and I think being cont like it's sort of
it means that you have to be contrarian
uh I feel being contrarian is the other
thing that as an entrepreneur is very
valuable right like you have to be able
to sort of have an opinion which maybe
the average people around you do not um
and basically mass is generally wrong
relative
basically what everybody else believes
you don't have to believe maybe that's
that means the same thing that is a
startup right yeah yeah absolutely I
think the startup is fundamentally
saying that what everybody so
fundamentally you have to build
something which is against convention if
it is convention the incumbent will
likely do it better by virtue of
experience and time yeah yeah and the M
of capital yeah yeah absolutely
absolutely so I think going back right I
think uh uh my trist with
entrepreneurship or the first word came
there before that my elder sister used
to say that she wanted to be a pilot so
when people would ask me what do you
want to be I used to say I want to be a
pilot even I used to say that as a kid
right yeah stupid astronaut I I had no
[Laughter]
idea if she's saying it
I tried to figure out from the
dictionary what it
meant I started saying I want to be an
entrepreneur so my rebellious nature was
this that I tried to sort of be
different contrarian this is again
something which is common to a lot of
successful entrepreneurs Rebel often
Without a Cause yeah often without a c I
think isn't it it's more a lot of
startups nature only
this all coming coming down to the same
thing Rebel contrarian against
convention anti-incumbent
right same thought absolutely absolutely
and I think where does the
rebelliousness come from was it
rebelling against your parents in the
early days or what they wanted you to do
no I think um quite the contrary
actually my parents um relatively they
felt that the Elder three children had
done so all right that they in some way
um also motivated to become me to become
slightly more rebellious like they were
generally more comfortable with me doing
things which they were absolutely not
comfortable with the Elder three
children which is probably also the
reason I never stole right like where
basically if I asked for it often they
would give me uh which was not the case
for my Elder Elder siblings so
uh and and I think I'm truly thankful to
that extent like I feel like if I was
probably just born as a third child i'
would not be who I am i' I I'd be who I
am only because I'm the youngest of the
lot I generally middle kids are more
rebellious cuz they have to set
themselves apart makes sense the top and
bottom organically get attention as long
as they know the last one in their
surpris like for example even then the
middle ones are still the rebellious at
one point of time principal said because
he jumped the fence and came late da d
da for 7 days he can't come to school
like if any of my Elder siblings had got
that uh decision from the principal I
think uh they were up for
like lot of P Dart uh there was no
coming back from it like for me it was
like you know Mom sat me down she said
you shouldn't do this Dad said he's a
young kid happens so I felt you know I'm
I'm I should take full advantage of it
and and be as rebellious as I can so
great communication with your parents
good communication with parents I think
more with Papa uh but uh because Dad was
more the person who said do whatever you
want to be um uh he uh but Mom was the
one who would possibly sort of be the
more uh like you have to study well like
if you don't do that you'll like be in
Rara and run like a pant shop uh right
like so Mom would paint the
contradictions much more uh actively um
communication skills continue in
companies like in OU yes I think uh
that's a very critical one let me let me
rephrase that question if your
management is doing something that is
annoying you to on a scale of 1 to
10 I might bring it up when it's 5 out
of 10 do you bring it up at 5 out of 10
2 out of 10 8 out of 10 how how quickly
do you
communicate I think the feedback loop is
or the communication Loop is quite quick
um I would now annoying the magnitude is
quite small yeah I'll just uh yeah I'll
just uh basically sort of uh swing it to
say allowing me may not be like there
the magnitude may be very high but
anything that I believe that is wrong
for the company or wrong for the um role
or the purpose they're pursuing I think
I feel very comfortable to have a
one-on-one
conversation bring it up but along with
calling myself Chief Clarity officer I
consider myself also a solution officer
so I bring up the problem but I often
couple that with a solution uh but I
feel very comfortable in bringing up a a
conversation I feel while in my family
that was very valuable I think there was
one person who changed it for me I think
uh the person is beul Somaya at light
speed yeah so be invested in us
like they invest very fast H yeah like
they take no time at all they took a
long time that was different story back
there was one company we were reviewing
recently not name the company so we were
negotiating with the founder and he had
come to the office in the afternoon he
went to light speed at night he came
back to us in the next evening and he
said light speed signed the term sheet
light speed yeah no light speed has they
call themselves as a high conviction
investor so they say that we invest very
little like they would invest in a year
like four five companies or three four
companies but in the ones they believe
in they would move very very quickly but
with us they took longer I don't know
why maybe they took took longer to
believe but um I had so they invested
your self-deprecating nature is very
attractive do you think that also holds
Good in the work ecosystem cuz we are so
used to looking at people who are
embellishing thems
constantly that that one startup which
comes to you and self deprecates becomes
a novelty do you think that works contan
mindset in a different manner yeah I
think in some way but I I have learned
that you know that the only way
especially um if you have a highly
talented management right who you want
to retain for a long period of time
there is no other way uh you can work
with them rather than being absolutely
um absolutely straightforward honest
vulnerable uh with them and then because
you spend most of the time most people
don't recognize it but they spend more
time with their colleagues than with
their own families also so due to which
you basically become an average of the
people around you that's my favorite
line in the office I said I know you
more than your wife you spend 11 hours
here 10 hours here so to that extent but
I think um I feel personally that also
comes when you become truly comfortable
in your skin I think the reason why the
self embellishing character gets spilt
is because you genuinely have a sense of
insecurity where you feel like
self-deprecating nature
of you know what will it mean can I ask
you another question I'm sorry I'm
digressing as much retes and oo dissect
the two apart from each other retes the
kid rates the teenager rates the young
adult ratesh at
30 what do you think are your
personality flaws and it's very core
I've come back to this because we stole
money from our mother's purses you did
not so there must be something else that
we need to know the rebel in some way FL
no no I'll conclude that the rebel in
some way I think came out of a
personality flaw uh of trying uh new
things and the flaw in it is potentially
um lesser attention span um or lesser
Span in I give less time to something to
fully um uh Bake open right like
um I feel I tried to do too many things
in the early days of our company and I
feel when I fully decided that I'm
I'll ask you another question which
might help with this answer yeah think
of a kid I keep coming back to kids I
don't yes think of a no I agree with
that 3 to S I think that's when your um
you know your your formation or
Foundation is individual is buil yeah
think of a kid
okay uh I'm in a room with a kid I put a
marshmallow in front of the kid I say
I'm going to go out of the room make a
phone call and come back into the room M
if the marshmallow in front of you I
tell the kid is still there when I come
back I will give you two
marshmallows then you'll have two
instead of
one when people tested kids actually
they figured that 80% of kids are not
able to delay gratification until the
person goes out of the room and comes
back and they eat the marshmallow 80%
yeah and when they track the 20% of kids
over a 15 20 30 40 year period they
figured there's
tangible evidence to prove that the kids
who were able to delay
gratification turned out to be the most
successful when they grew up M do you
think not being able to delay
gratification could be a flaw in
you personally don't bias it on what I
have to say I'll tell you the two
personality traits which is confusing me
about this question I have very high
ability of delaying gratification in
terms of wealth creation for
instance um on the other hand I have
very low ability to delay
gratification in terms of beginning the
pursu that I wanted and I'll give
examples of both in a tangible way so
it'll explain this to you better I
genuinely fell in love with this idea
that you know I will go digitize small
hotels and I thought the time is now and
I said I'll do it now this is right
after 12th grade first Papa got to know
and he tried to reason with me saying
that you
know get your college done and then do
this and I said you know I like I
genuinely believe the time is now and of
course Papa having better communication
he both of us then came up with what the
communication to Mom will be which
basically became all the kids in our
12th grade are taking a gap year
consider this the Gap year and if it
doesn't work I'll move back so this is
where I did not deal
gratification On The Other Extreme I
think uh probably just Soo is this year
completing 10 years so we are a we've
been around for some time probably until
three or four years back uh I had a few
liks in my bank account M right you
never did secondary I never did
secondaries because uh the purpose and
the enthusiasm was so exciting that
nothing else mattered um in terms of
context so I think um there is a
conformity in me also I have I a unique
combination of rebellious and Conformity
so for example can I can I take away
from your last statement you're able to
delay gratification when it comes
to money paid out to you without
complicating how that sounds secondary
round but you find it harder to delay
gratification when it comes to growth or
when it comes to public perception I
think I think money paid out to me I'm
willing to delay gratification I'm
unable to delay gratification when it
comes to
um intellectual stimulation which comes
why I think uh you know solving problems
right I think finding same problem new
problems cuz once a problem is solved it
becomes less intellectually stimulating
right yeah no which means new problems I
think which is which is the whole point
I was going back to right that uh for me
I last five years I had to change myself
fundamentally to try and make sure that
every day I reviewed the same thing
because businesses are inherently boring
at some level right so you have to make
sure that there's the 30% excitement
which is solving a new problem uh
creating a product feature or one of
those things but 70% of it is just Ops
right like doing the same job little bit
better every day um and that did not
come naturally to me I think I had to
train myself to become the that person
who do you emulate rates the person who
we all pick someone and do it
consciously and subconsciously I think
as a business person somebody who at
least over the last five years when I
said that I tried to transform myself
especially with the onset of covid or
around the four years maybe I think that
is UD kotak I think I feel like he's one
of those people again first generation
entrepreneur most people don't recognize
built a bank first
generation he king of delaying
gratification yeah and you you sit with
him in the room there's a sense of like
and every time he begins inti
saying so he like there's just a sense
of when you begin the discussions with
him there's a sense of um like the world
may be
burning and he will represent that in
words but he would not emote it in
actions right I agree with you 100% but
if you have to derive something from
this for a 21y old we talking to
today what do you think people like UD
kotak his generation had that the 21y
old today is lacking which is relevant
to the world of today I would say three
things the first one is being absolutely
comfortable to make sure that when your
friends are sharing beautiful Instagram
stories of going to pubs restaurants or
very exciting
places um
you are pursuing things which are not
exciting and you sort of tend to believe
that it is because of your
circumstances would you say that's
delaying gratification that's delaying
gratification but I'm just trying to put
it going to going to a pub is instant
pleasure Center yes right yes there's
there's a psychologist who said a very
interesting thing what is the difference
between pleasure and
enjoyment pleasure is having that piece
of chocolate which has sugar in it
pleasure is having a beer maybe pleasure
becomes
enjoyment when there is a gap between
two pleasurable events and you add
memory to it memory happens by virtue of
adding a group around it yeah no I think
this um the other way to put it is if
you look at there's this Netflix
documentary which is I think it's called
the Blue lines or blue zones BL zones
blue zones right which talks about
longetivity and
longetivity has something similar which
talks about a sense of community
happiness but at the same time making
sure that your food habits Etc are sort
of not designed for short-term pleasure
but long-term enjoyment rather okay
delaying ratification not not succumbing
to the short-term Pleasures absolutely
and also not having to conform to
average people like average um uh pure
pressure around you right like I think
don't you think this generation has that
in check compared to UDOT in that
generation they were more conformist
than the 21 year olds of today I think
uh the 21 year olds uh have if I were to
uh reverse the word of uh Conformity
pure pressure to look the best on social
media to make sure they dress the best
to make sure that they have the best
number of posts to make sure they have
the most number of likes so you would
say social pressure social social
pressure that's probably a better word
to it um but I think to avoid it to
significant extent is a very critical
thing because that pressure is so high
and so noisy today that it can end up
pushing you towards doing things with no
patience no patience underline if that
is there at least they can handle all
that because and I grew up in like
similar generation now I think 10 years
back is already a generation apart but I
think 10 years back when I was growing
up uh people around me would look at me
and say that guy's a dock right like
absolutely dock studying all the time
doing business who does this when they
are
19 and if you uh get bothered by
it you will lose in my view the number
one thing that it takes to get an
entrepreneurial success or any success
which is perseverance like being at it
for long periods of time because there
there are so many reasons to give up no
right should not get one one layer under
your skin so for example like I told one
of my
friends
is Metro
station in Delhi bti is like um a
thatched roof uh room at the top of a
house so that's where I used to live
when I first moved like most people who
mov to Delhi live there
so but I had never told him it's ATI
because you don't tell a normal I just
said right like a usual kit this was a
wealthy kid there were some kids I was
friend not when I was starting my
business in Delhi a usual kid would have
gotten so
bothered that they would have stopped
calling people to meet themselves but
for me it was very comfortable I was
very okay with saying that people will
say this to
me and if I do well in life it'll be all
right if not then this is the means I
have so being okay to let go of social
pressure is what I would encourage and I
also got bothered by it a lot of times
was when I was 19 19 but I also got
bothered by it but I
recognized what can be
[Music]
wor
they were similar Rebels Without a
Cause so UD kotak you said so first is
delay gratification delay gratification
second is not social no social PR as
indifference is the new cool
indifference is the new cool absolutely
and the third one is I think a sense of
humility and humility in decisions which
uh can be very large so for example now
is when I meet young entrepr you think
humility is counterintuitive to
self-confidence which we established is
a prerequisite for someone looking to
start up no I think they they are
independent uh strong characteristics I
think you can can you be self-confident
and humble yes you can be self-confident
give me a for instance so uh
self-confident would mean that I can
build oo into a incredible success
humble is um it's the first time I'm
building a hotel business so um I don't
know what will go in this journey but I
will figure it out so I think that's at
least that's my view but to the third
point will you add to the end of that
line can you help me his point of no ego
willing to bend your back absolutely
absolutely and I and I'll explain an
example with UD kotak's example right he
built a fantastic franchise um in his
previous AAR before the bank M and he
was so he started a um Bild discounting
business if I remember it
right he was okay to add the Mahindra
name to the bank mhm right he had built
a big business he didn't need to do it
yeah but he was okay to do it nowadays
when I meet entrepreneurs who have just
started the business not all like 90% of
them like I'm surprised young
entrepreneurs can be so bright and they
have all these characteristics but
there's some people who have this sense
of saying that a sense of um superiority
that I have done so much already ready M
I think um for people in that generation
like him like Naran morti and various
others they built incredible businesses
but we're still able to accept that but
in comparison I'm still aring error and
I have to do a lot more and I think that
was that humility that allowed them to
become you know a bigger version of
themselves uh consistently they say
people who made a lot of money very
quickly often hate themselves in the
world so
subconsciously do
you often hate themselves and the world
try you find yourself or somewhere yeah
like deep
down do don't know yeah I think uh I I
interesting question though I'm in
absolute I I I like myself and you know
I try to uh do more to like myself
humility also allows you allows a lot of
common people to accept you on a very
easy approachable manner
otherwise hum honest in my be so
surrounded with your own self and your
XYZ
humility but you should at the same time
be able to accept that their things
you other people who have done better
than you I want to understand
that that people who have made a lot of
money very quickly deep down hid
themselves it's there's a certain
Pathway to arrive at the conclusion I
think it passes through imposter complex
imposter syndrome yeah I I could relate
it to
that yeah but I think the Imposter
complex serious one right like I
genuinely believe that I had I have no
business sitting here right
likea town would have gotten lus if I
had gotten infosis uh assistant
technical engineer well that is the
starting job called in which you get
three lakh salary like if I had gotten
that our town would have celebrated I
would have been super happy my mom for
the longest time thought that I have
gotten into friendship with wrong people
who have gotten me to this
entrepreneurship buz so I
[Music]
think like there was by mistake I got
into a classroom and it has happened
many times in life I'll give you an
example which is very close story and
I've never talked about it but very
close to my
heart so after 12th grade what changed
my life was a theal fellowship so Peter
the is a founder of PayPal early invest
in
Facebook how does a 12th grader know
about who Peter thel is Rebel Without a
Cause $50,000 $100,000 $1,000 right
to big deal right now how does the 12th
grader get to know even about
Peter so Rebel Without
a
ship social network
mov in that there is this person called
Peter who gives the first $100,000 check
so next time I go to a cyber how does
that work just for people who are
watching and
interested not just teal Fellowship but
anything similar that they'd like to
apply for how does one find out where
these scholarships are and apply for
them look I found it through Serendipity
but I will give a few examples that I'm
aware of and some of the things that I'm
also doing as an outcome so theal
Fellowship is one which is a program
started by Peter theel where he gives
$100,000 to 20 people earlier it used to
be age limitation under the age of 20
acceptance rates are lower than IV leaks
but there's one condition you have to
stop out of
college right if you're in college if
you're in college I was not in college
so it was easier and the thesis behind
it the contract's first line says we
never let University interfere with
education so education is everywhere
including the WTF podcast um but you
don't have to go to university for it
but University is one of the sources of
it you can also pursue education there
so um I was a theal fellow but there are
other theal fellows like the founder of
ethereum is a theal fellow which is a
cryptocurrency founder of figma figma is
a design tool very popular over the
years so a bunch of these people who are
exceptionally successful came to the
fellowship and everybody has very
similar backgrounds right young people
they were Rebel Without a Cause wanted
to make a positive difference but coming
back the fellowship is one in India
there's something called the Young India
found uh young India Fellowship very
popular Yi Fellowship I think it's
called it's very popular great uh Sim
not similar it's very different uh but
again something that allows young people
to be able to pursue their aspirations
but this one I think only invites
graduates post uh undergrad so basically
after that if you want to sort of be a
part of the fellowship I think something
very different is teach for India I
think that's another way of making sure
basically what are the communities where
you can find people who are slightly
rebellious who are trying to do
something new in life who are creative
who want to do something new it may have
been art for you it may have been um
being in um you know uh the company of
inditex and and their uh you know
ecosystem so I think fundamentally just
finding people around you that's
education actually huh that's education
right you learn from them and it also
allows you to get it in any University
you don't get it in any University so I
think that's the third one I'm doing
something with something that's called
The naropa Fellowship it's started by
the drpa of ladak again of course uh the
person who's involved between Ashoka
University naropa haraa is all the same
so Ashish and this other person Prat sa
is the person who's involved and I think
similar fellowship and what I have done
with them is started a naropa rites
Fellowship where we basically these are
mostly hilly terrain kids kids gotten
out of college want to do something new
so I give them Equity free debt free
grants because the theal fellowship
changed my life so I thought can I help
make difference same with the zepto kids
they got a 40 lakh Grand they built
zepto in the back of that really yeah
was that the game changer after 12 theal
theal Fellowship was a game changer I
think that changed my life were you like
a great student up until that point like
first rank types not first rank I think
third fourth second to Fourth rank in
until 10th grade same thing yeah uh but
11th 12th grade not so much no why uh
because um so I think until 10th grade I
was in Raa post 10th grade most kids go
outside for Education right uh so my
Elder three siblings one went to um I
think other towns in udisa only bigger
towns um because in our town the only
way to get that was one college and that
wasn't like most preferred route but
parents had some savings because Elder
three siblings most of them got one of
their degrees through uh what is called
scholarship so parents had some savings
so I said Rebel to I want to go to Kota
Rajasthan Kota is much more expensive to
send a child to than that of somewhere
in odisa right because you have to send
uh three-day trains both sides so you
are the Kota Factory I'm I'm a part of
the Kota factory production so during
those two years I used to sort of um uh
you know intern in small companies and
so
on while of course education education I
was not the first second ranker but
still reasonably good ranker so I was
not like I was terrible uh in terms of
impact so parents were generally
comfortable so I was not the kaga top
kids I was medium so I did all
right so 12th grade beach around right
after 12th
grade that is when I applied for the the
fellowship and became a theal fellow um
the first time I got a call so I applied
uh because I heard about Peter the apply
this I'm not where is this the you apply
online online you apply online and it's
just online class digital application no
class submit when you make the
application just a bunch of questions
bunch of about what business Do you want
to build what did you say oo I didn't
call it oo then but I but effectively
the idea was the oo idea which I
proposed accommodation with some
standardization that we can provide um I
think fundamentally post those questions
there was no other Asian resident who
had become a fellow before me so I gave
myself 0% chance to become a fellow but
I enjoyed the questions I answered them
then interview started so there
telephone interviews so the product head
of Twitter will get on an interview with
you for a 12th grader to be on an
interview with people like those was a
big deal and I would do it like on a
feature phone of one of the friends
basati friends who was staying next to
me one day I get this call which is you
among the top 40 candidates selected and
will'll fly you to the US and you can
pitch and 20 would get selected post the
pitch I was like so excited about it the
reason was not because I thought I'll
become a theal fellow I still give
myself 0% chance it was my first flight
and international flight trip I would
ever get for free somebody else was
paying for it
so life is made right so but again
coming back to how parents are helpful
I got like a few days in that period mom
got the passport made I didn't have a
passport for US Visa I didn't know was
so hard and and yeah this is an example
of why I believe that genuinely I'm
lucky so I was told
biometric they send a letter you give
the letter you get the visa and you have
to go to Delhi or Bombay or no I was in
Delhi only so it was even easier so I
got when biometric done next day was the
interview now interview I thought that
letter
so I basically was wearing shorts had my
hair all over and I reached the US
Embassy and I see people are wearing
jackets ties have big books interviewing
each other so I thought maybe they have
come here for some job interview some
different work my work is
different that's the level of coming to
self-confidence very self-confident I
reached the interview lady and right
like as as I get closer line us
so I thought different but reaching the
counter we were all in the same counter
path so I'm starting to feel that
something different but I was still
convincing myself that they start making
your hair Peter theel has given me a
letter in my mind I thought that you
know he must like the Visa will be given
immediately so the lady asked what's
your purpose of visit to the
US so I say I want to drop out by
becoming a theal fellow she listens
Dropout and in her mind goes this guy is
going to go to the gas station
next that's his plan and weirdly he's
being honest about it
also I only learned this later because
then she
says uh do you have uh like if that's a
purpose of visit is there an education
also you want to pursue I say yes theal
Fellowship can be considered as
education so she said do you have any
documentation for it I said there's this
letter so she said
uh unfortunately it doesn't seem like we
can give you the Visa but we can't also
return you the passport so typically if
they reject the Visa they give you back
the passport so I said you can't reject
the Visa first off and second my flight
is day after tomorrow so you return the
passport to me anyway she says
unfortunately that's not how it
works and shuts down the window I came
back home I cried like crazy because I
thought
that
and before that I had cold emailed so
many people I had cold emailed like 100
people saying that I want to come see
like your office or so on like I cold
emailed God bless him ton sh of Zap and
so on
say so anyway long story short um you
know I wrote to the the fellowship as
well saying that they didn't give me the
Visa can you write a letter to them so
that there's some credibility they wrote
a letter and the embassy was nice to
later give me the
Visa I got to the flight next day even
the flight was a weird thing I had a
lansa flight the lansa flight got
cancelled the fellowship was nice to
book a British Airway right after so I
think just fundamentally for me I feel
like this long story is just to say
that anything could have gone wrong in
this the Visa could not have come the
flight would not have uh uh you know
happened something could have gone wrong
so in life we forget when we reached to
this point there were probably 200
things that had to go right
and if that one thing did not go right
You' probably be in a very different
place you say Serendipity a little bit
more than usual yes true true belief in
that I have true belief I have true
belief in
um if you work hard um uh opportunities
will come your way um which otherwise
would not have what have been the most
serendipitious
events that you can remember if you were
to name just two just two
the US Embassy I'm guessing is one yes
so that's one I'll try the second one I
think the second one is actually I'll
say two uh two more one is um possibly
how I met Anuj most people don't know
Anuj Anuj and I started oo together so
before oo I was running oravel for 6
months and then I flipped to oo he
joined me in oravel and then we together
pivoted to make it too he still with you
he's still with me so um
at that when I was running arrival it
was me and one intern both of us to run
the company sahil was the intern sahil
of course had told me when he was
interviewing that after 2 to 3 years
once he makes enough money he will set
up a restaurant and he'll leave me so
two to the fact 3 years later he left
and now runs fantastic couple of
restaurants in Bombay um so Anu calls he
wherever he figures about arrival he
calls the call
center sahil picks up he thinks it's a
big
says can I can you connect me to the
Chairman's
office
says he hands over the every all of us
have gone through the stories right we
have I get the phone and I keep and I'm
telling
on but
any and an speaks and you know he's is
opposite of me right like he went to
itbu built his business during school
sold it uh went to uiu for some
internship but then had come and joined
a consulting company and was hitting it
so he wanted to leave it and build
something so we speak for 50 minutes and
he said I have explored Airbnb in the US
this is my view so I I made as much
copious notes as I could and at the end
I said that those it's been great
talking to you but I can't afford you
but I learned so much the day I can
afford you we'll chat again
then he says but I'm I'm happy to meet
you I said if you want to meet after
hearing what you have heard be my guest
please come so he came again we spent an
hour I learned more at the end I again
said but can't uh afford you so he said
there is this thing called ESOP I don't
need salary I'm going to offer no salary
I'll in fact put some money if
required but you give me esops so I said
this is a great thing without salary you
will work so I said perfect done esops
so he said I want whatever I think I
don't remember 3 and a half or 4% es I
said
perfect so that was my concept of
learning of ESOP in the first time like
the
appreciation
well like depreciation of yours correct
correct so I thought this is fantastic
later I recognized that you know this is
probably one of the best dishs teate but
for me it was a because for the first
time I saw what working with somebody
who was who understood process who
understood systems who could document
what did that look like was before that
I only worked with interns I didn't have
appreciation of anybody else outside of
that second is beel right like I was in
the during the the fellowship in the
US um he beel was also in the US because
light speed has a uh like the main
office in the US I met him uh uh and at
the end of it we said that it's been
great meeting each other we'll reconnect
sometime
H they kept doing the work in India we
had one oo Hotel then we then opened
another so they visited those hotels
they visited other hotels they met the
property owners then one day called us
saying that we want to try and do
something with you um I think beel also
I think other than the fellowship Peter
the beel changed my life I think he was
uh I think the other person who I tried
to emulate a lot is I think beel I think
he has a sense of calm he like this uh I
I I I think so uh and and I think uh he
he's uh genuinely like feedbacks for
example communication I'll give you an
interesting example of an uncomfortable
conversation I brought it up right so we
had a call center like most companies
and I used to be the call center person
who would pick up calls customer call I
make the booking and I used to love it
because you speak to customer directly
such an amazing job right so even after
they invested I kept doing that job so
he would invite me every month for lunch
I'd go to that lunch so he feed me very
well at the end he says sures I hear
your loving your call center job I say
it's great I listen to customers and so
on so he says in his like at the end
that so that's great we found the call
center head of Oo we should now start
finding the CEO should we start a
process I said look I get it I get it
that what I'm doing is not my job and we
will recruit someone but I think ability
to say something in such a nice kind way
that at that room you feel like you know
it's a objective feedback but when you
walk out you feel that that was a pretty
intense feedback uh is something I've
learned from him I guess and Beyond 12th
what happened the's Fellowship yeah
$1,000 came back to India so I was there
in the US for four five months uh lived
in a hacker house with other the fellows
um but came back to India in 2013 mid m
M uh we uh that was we was me Anuj and
couple of interns at that point of time
and then sort of uh at the similar time
light speed chose to invest a few months
later light speed invested I think 3.5
crores at a 8 CR valuation U Back Then
it's a huge deal for us I think uh I had
never seen a COR together in a bank
account in my life um uh before that so
it put just a sense of accountability
that now you have to like make good that
there's somebody else who's willing to
commit so much Capital behind you and I
think uh this since 2013 um end roughly
or 2014 early is when we really started
growing the business and um uh you know
we've we've continued in that path we've
gone through our highs and lows as you
uh may have observed you read uh that
there were orbitar there was K like I
feel what helped you deal with the lows
what personality trade
look I think
um two things right
um
fundamentally one we got more love than
we deserved so if you remember that we
were getting too much appreciation
sometimes but sometimes we also got
beaten down a lot more I think the trait
off for a 20year
old um for them to have that one day at
College when they become the Superstar
and next week they are considered like
an
outcast I think
um I think the trait is um always being
an optimist about the future and knowing
that things will change uh either
positively or negatively I think I would
say optimism and coming to terms with
the cyclical nature of yes and and
coming to awareness of cyclicality yeah
I would say that one needs to just be
um aware and comfortable that uh if an
amitab bachan was in Crazy debt and
everybody wrote him off he can come back
to become one of the wealthiest stars in
less than 20 years most bankable stars
one of the most bankable stars and that
doesn't happen as an exception that's
pretty much the norm for anybody who can
stick their neck out and continue so I
think if you are a 20-year-old and I
have gone through this many
times where everybody around you thought
that you are a done deal the seven days
when I was kept out of school um and I
was a prefect at that point of time so
being a prefect and being told that out
you're uh suspended from school for some
time so that that is my unique um
contrarian perspective that I've always
had that I would be a prefect but I'd
also be slightly rebellious uh which is
sort of what you also mentioned earlier
in the perspective of saying that you
have this contrarian side to yourself so
I think in those times I think it's very
easy to give up and I was told that I'll
not give you the certificate of the
prefect because of this a tough time is
like a messy room you have to tidy it up
again because you want to live back in
this space so you have to be absolutely
comfortable that you know there will be
good days in the future and there will
be bad days and there will be good days
and if you're having great days you
should know that the bad days are coming
and whatever you can do to prepare for
it is better to do it are you guys also
optimistic guzzle are you
unreasonably optimistic not unreasonably
optimistic I am optimistic because what
I believe in it
is if it's good it won't last if it's
bad it won't last similar yeah you I'm
very optimistic actually it's also your
life's own behavior which gives you this
this builtup Factor on this I me you
take a loan and you think you will pay
back or not and instead of 15 years you
pay back in four years it's all every
expression of your journey and
everything that you've achieved and and
gone through gets you more and more
clear sight for the next uh episode that
you want to attack but I think that's a
fundamental difference I think all
entrepreneurs are optimistic and risk
risk taking and risk taking but I feel
that the persevering Optimist types are
the ones who create long-term
success I think the most people I have
found around
myself um like I feel and to your Point
N I also believe that not believe I I
know that I'm not the uh U you know uh
best engineer best salesperson best
Finance person any of those things right
but I feel in our industry all the
competitors we had whenever the tough
times came they gave
up the only thing different about us
funnily this is the first thing I wrote
about you when she was speaking
Relentless have you ever read any Makia
Val no the Eur European chanaka in a in
a way no no I've heard about them of
course you seem to embody a lot of what
he says you know if you all have watched
the movie 12 fail no not yet but I've
heard some incredible you should
absolutely watch it it is amazing so if
you watch that movie you will hear that
you will see that that kid comes from
chumble and he had that complex saying
that nobody else from chumble becomes an
IPS officer without cheating with
cheating cheating School IP
off but as Leaders I believe personally
that big heart trumps big brains have
you ever read towm anything on it again
everything you're
seeing European
Soul okay how did you deal with your
father passing away it was look I think
it was I I think I messaged you that day
but I read in the news and it you it
sounded like a life changing I think uh
I
think
um look I think I I don't think I have
fully processed it even today so I'm
still sort of there's a Spanish book it
takes three years to recover for a son
so I think nothing prepares you for a
loss of um somebody as close as that
okay so
you started uh with the teal Fellowship
money with your friend Anuj
oravel converted to oo when did the
scaling happen first year was very small
like I think 2014 We Grew From two
hotels to maybe 10 15 hotels still a lot
but not like massive I think the real
growth happened from 2014 all the way to
2017 which is where we went from a few
hotels in one City to becoming one of
the most prominent Hotel brands in India
in the economy and uh economy plus kind
of segment um
2019 is when the scaling then happened
globally we went from being an India
brand to becoming a globally prominent
brand so for example just in Europe we
manage 150,000 Holiday Homes so we have
a fairly large business in Denmark
Netherlands Germany and and few of these
geographies so I can relate with getting
to the cities out of the flight to your
Hotel do your job and come back so you
don't have me and GLE would switch
places with you guys any day they're
talking Milan
Madrid now I can get to do that for my
work my back in the time I would have
like loved to switch I'm here
only in terms of discipline there's one
discipline that I maintain is a holiday
every month every month every month
every month
amazing that one I can last 6 seven
years how long is the holiday weekend no
3 days 2 days 5 days whatever comes
every month every month that's amazing
like you go out somewhere of the
city go to JW golfshire and stay in the
hotel yeah it's a nice
idea you were describing post getting
funded post getting yeah so I think 2019
was a big Global
growth how much money did you guys end
up raising a lot right yeah we raised uh
close to a billion and a half dollars
overall overall little over that M right
so already I think in 2019 when we grew
This Global expansion and we also made
an couple of acquisition I think we were
starting to see Pains of growth Pains of
growth meaning how many hotels did you
have by then India you said
internationally you mentioned but India
similar as we have today I think GL
total already came down now we are
bouncing back so uh we're fairly sizable
business uh and if I add China it was
more at that point of time right so then
uh so what did Growing Pains mean
Growing Pains mean that natural
economics were bad right um and that was
bad in a very unique way 90% of our
hotels were Revenue share hotels 10%
were minimum guarantee those 10% hotels
drove most of the losses and 90% of them
were highly margin acreative
always um I think the management
bandwidth to a business of that
spread um and you never in reflection I
can say that we grew more than we should
have but at that point of time it's hard
to know when you GRE too much because
there's no Playbook like opening 30
stores is good 10 stores good 20 stores
is good there's no arithmetic to it and
it was never written by us also that
this year we'll do that many correct so
uh so how did you handle that stress of
having a billion dollar plus money into
the system someone's money right and
aaral Mar you know it
for the 20y old guy what's that weight
on that shoulder I mean I can't
even hold that up look I think uh and uh
plus accountability because once people
invest the capital then they require the
monthly update the regular reviews you
have any questions that can come up I
think fundamentally for me uh in the
early days especially the capital was
not a choice because I had no
resources to initi
I think India leadership sort of
happened
organically Global expansion that was in
my view driven by my own personal belief
in Impact like like what drives me every
day AK complex problems how many
people's lives I'm touching that
fundamentally I believe that that makes
a positive difference and good news is
that also commercially has a positive
impact because the more number of people
you are basically impacted in allows you
to be able to hopefully make some
additional outcome but it came with
challenges and there were mistakes made
I have no qualms about saying it so I
started fixing and consolidating 2020
early you think admitting mistakes
early sorry admitting mistakes early big
part of being successful I think so I
think admitting mistakes and saying Mia
kalpa is critical because a lot of
times early early yes uh the reason is
you know when you're having a you know
you effectively as a business leader or
an
entrepreneur you have to be able to make
decisions to make decisions it's
critical to have conversations which are
authentic and not
pretentious the only way you can have a
non-pretentious conversation is if the
elephant is uh uh out of the room if
people don't talk about elephant then
you can have
many but if you're able to say that
these are the mistakes that were made
and you have to be honest about it
because it is very um easy to understand
because
difference you can see it right like
because you can just come out of this
like you can go to indran nagar see a oo
hotel and say like see traces of what I
have said there and the other way around
in some context right or it's true for
all of our businesses that if mistakes
are made it will be visible at our this
is also very true for all successful
businesses because I see a lot of
Founders Not Having the courage to admit
that they've made a mistake and what
happens is they try and continue to
conceal it because they've pitched it in
a certain way they feel that the word is
so strong it becomes an ego problem and
they don't want to one admit it and
because of that they fall into that Loop
where you're not correcting the only way
to figure more lonely as an outcome
because more and more people sort of
desert you so I believe that admitting
mistake early is crucial and it is also
crucial to make sure that you are close
to your roots I think if you're uh when
you try to run away from mistakes it's a
very easy way of running away from
reality and then you sort of build a
world around yourself which is just
entire but anyway I think long story
short I think mistakes are made I was
consolidating by the time I could fix it
Mr Co knocked in the door on the doors
and said well uh you know we'll do it
faster right I'll make it harder for you
so imagine I had forward invested that
we will we will the year before c we
grew
300%
right covid hits so you had forward
invested for growth you're starting to
consolidate
but you're able to fund it partly
through the margins you're generating
from the current revenues right and
partly through external
financing with Cod 65% of your Revenue
overnight
evaporate right so in effect you have to
fund 100% or majority through external
financing there is a limit to the
capital available there's not infinite
Capital available with anyone especially
for a business that is shrinking a
business that is growing higher slower
you can debate but a business was shrunk
during covid so it was hard on us most
digital lead Brands right e-commerce
gaming industry they they all saw
massive ramp up during
covid now not travel here I am not where
my revenue is shrink 65% M and people
were basically calling right all the
entire deck right from my cxus to the
last person recruiters calling saying
stock
here's two or 3x salary
jump and these were other travel
companies no no our people are not
Specialists right our people are
technology people so you basically can
recruit them across mostly generalists
right in terms of construct so the
fungibility of talent is very high with
other tech companies so salary
stock lifestyle be
better you know things will be much
better an outcome so I think
fundamentally at that point of time I
feel like that one year was probably one
of the toughest ones as an operator to
drive but I think at the same time I
feel like that one year really
transformed our company as well as as
the way we think and operate I think now
we become very comfortable being a 30%
Growth
Company we are happy about it I think we
have a sense of semblance on what we
believe is our cash flow margins and for
us I think we have a consumer rating
expectation below which we will not grow
we have a merchant Revenue expectation
below which will not grow and we have a
margin expectation at the Eid and cash
flow
level want to grow as quickly as we can
we will not gr I think a lot of these
perspectives I think would have come
anywh over time but I think Co
accelerated that significantly without
giving a choice I think I think what
you're also saying is a big determinant
of
success is the ability to get punched
not necessarily punched
yeah and be sanguin about it and go
about yeah life yeah big precursor to
success right but I think any startup
Journey you got to like be okay to get
beat up yeah yeah you will definitely
get beaten up how fast are you able to
bounce back I think that's that's and
you don't kind of like react or yeah
yeah like you would have uh I've never
seen you like speak back on social media
or defend yourself in a weird manner in
a defense ensive manner right no I think
personally I think I have uh learned to
take criticism in a very like and I
believe it will be very valuable for
other young people listening
also like if if I read some of the
Business Leaders some people say that I
don't read news about us actually I'm
quite the contrary I read
everything I have no problem reading
everything but I can read everything and
feel comfortable
that so I think fundamentally criticism
can be constructive or it can be just
noise noise never sticks because Noise
by
design that I'm reading about myself
that I don't know about right like
there'd be some news of saying that AA
uh oo is buying some business in
Southeast Asia or some business in
Middle East I know there's no such to it
to some people
speculate it's done or something will
come about well U you knowes is going to
do something new very soon so I feel
like it's some noise it will not stick
what is your relationship with masayoshi
son how did it get inculcated has it
[Music]
SED look I think uh you asked who I you
know I often call him sonan given in
Japan you typically add a son at the end
um out of respect so I think sonan um is
first generation
entrepreneur um invested in Alibaba
quite early but his own Telecom business
which is now probably the most
profitable business in Japan and one of
the most profitable Telecom business in
the world uh in terms of
construct uh and then invested in alib
Baba which did very well and then set up
multiple software Eng Vision funds and
arm and few others I think so that's the
context behind who he is I think
um I would basically correlate it as
soft bank's relationship and within that
of course talk about sunsan I think I
got introduced to soft bank first time
in 2015 or 2016 right when we were in
that growth phase we in three cities
then just starting to take
off so uh I think Nikes introduced us
and Nikes did the work he's now the CEO
of PA Alto networks the deal was more or
less agreed between Nik and the broader
soft Bank team there was a broader soft
bank and soft Bank team uh at that time
they used to invest from the balance
sheet so that's how we uh got introduced
to each other in the first place so
before the fin investment decision is
made is you have to go and present to
sonan and he approves finally so I went
to Japan I was again very excited to go
to a new country I'm so I'm generally
the person who's always very happy and
excited about new places and new things
right like you know now the Shar Tang
episodes are airing so there's some
trolls saying that you know why are you
smiling all the time I'm just generally
happy being
there you're smiling even today that's
that's who you are so I'm generally like
you know whenever I'm in new places I'm
happy I'm excited
so sonan comes I make a quick
presentation so he explains two or three
things which is quite fascinating to me
I think first thing he mentions is that
if I were you I would go as full stack
as possible rather than being more and
more Marketplace which is that I do more
to control the experience um do you mean
own the hotel no not own the hotel but
basically sort of can you potenti
actually like delivery companies have a
service provider goes and delivers can
the front office manager be yours right
so that uh you can have slightly greater
control over the experience of course
the are economics of it which can be
complicated the second uh or or
beneficial depends second thing he says
is you're very early uh but I think um
you know if you are in this growth path
making sure that you continuously track
the consumer satisfaction Loop closure M
will be crucial before you ramp up or
down there will be times when the
consumer feedbacks will continue to be
positive and he said it will most
definitely happen and did happen to us
that the feedbacks will be great all all
through when you're growing and then
suddenly one day you'll see that you've
grown greater than usual the consumer
feedback is not showing that great
outcomes he said that will necessarily
happen when it does happen you should
consider pausing and the third he said
is that you are the CEO so you make the
decisions um you'll receive great ideas
from all our uh advisers but eventually
if your company does well or not You' be
responsible all three made complete
sense but you only appreciate like he
said tution fees you only appreciate
when you made enough mistakes you don't
listen or appreciate those just purely
by words very wise words though so
that's how the investment happened with
soft
Bank um and then of course the very
quickly nikesh moved on and I think ever
since after that Rajiv munish and that
sort of cohort uh became our primary
Partners from uh from soft Bank over the
years and our relationship was very much
you know we meet in a quarter review the
business go through and once in a year
uh you know you also get invited to go
present to sonan and I think the one
unique takeaway that I have personally
about sonan that I think most of the
people have not talked about is people
see sonan primarily as an investor right
Financial investor and so on I think
he's at his heart an entrepreneur first
and an investor second M and the depth
and the attention to detail that he has
his creativity and his sense of sort of
um coming up with new ideas are in my
view what makes him special in the first
place
insane insane curiously curious ability
curious without an ego that's a good way
to put it you've given me so much I'm
I'll tell you from my side I learned so
much from you guys right uh in so many
different facets some that are evident
some that are non-evident like the
father thing my father passed away like
just now 30 days 35 days ago so sorry to
hear no but your journey 1 month 3
months 6 months I was asking you six
years very interesting okay
so I'm going to put down success
parameters add to the previous two and
say admitting mistakes early very
important
curiosity extremely extremely important
probably something I resonate with the
most contrarian very nature of a startup
I think a company
begins with something contrarian
especially if you're starting young
Clarity of thought rigid particular all
three of you said
that with you Nuance I I would add in a
very toist
way likability and niceness is so
underrated in the world right now like a
lot of people I choose to work with I
choose to partner with I
think today I have the privilege and
it's also such an important metric to me
that I need to like hanging out with
them at the core they need to be nice
people so I think people undermine the
importance of how likable and nice you
are as a person I think it's incredibly
valuable as a
business all of you said again you with
standing outside guzzle stood outside a
toy store Manish was willing to bend his
back and go ask somebody something that
other people might not have no ego which
also came from you again incredible
always be selling even when they were
answering their questions you were
selling and plugging oo rooms I think
that again is incredibly important
uh delaying ratification indifference is
cool both of these again on top of the
list so what we're trying to like arrive
at today is whenever a young 21y old boy
or girl wants to know what makes startup
Founders people like yourself successful
they get generic they get hardw
workk they get sell in this particular
manner use the sales
strategy all of it which is taking away
from the core emotion of what is
actually working for you guys so intent
here was to ask you non-usual questions
get non-usual answers and hopefully help
that 21y old I'll run through all three
of your main things starting with yours
optimism aware of cyclicality continuing
from where we left off Serendipity is
again a very interesting one
right impostor complex is good a lot of
us seem to have it insecurity is good as
long as neither of these lead to
inaction but they lead to action right
yeah it can't that's very important it's
called good sense of
insecurity yeah yeah
creativity this is
again something that is often
overlooked you defined creativity in a
very nice manner
rewarding loyalty reprimanding
disloyalty very important true forgiving
but not forgetting yeah
confidence in how you look post 12 this
could come via playing a sport yoga
sleeping for 8 hours extremely important
cuz you confident about how you look and
how you feel about yourself you're
likely more easily confident about what
you're selling
Fair sleep holiday all of this comes
into the same
thing avoidant attachment type good for
startups bad for relationships overall
but good for starting a company I think
I'm like that like I have a
tendency I I fear sympathy in others
eyes for me I fear being vulnerable so
much that if I am going through
something I will hide it like something
bad happening in my life some bad event
I would rarely mention it yeah but
that's yeah it's bad but bad bad in
relationships very unhealthy but for a
company maybe it's to start a company I
don't know how that's translating but
that seems to be common to a lot of
people even even uh even with your
company is that is that that good it's
healthy if you're not emotionally
attached to the company no but when when
times get tough and I feel that I have
that emotional connect with my company
where I still I'll be like I will figure
this out but if I
am and for which I also end up being
vulnerable in front of my leadership
team being open about what's happening
and trying to figure it out all together
because I can't do it alone if I don't
have that I feel that how how do you
look at it actually very interesting
Nuance I feel like I get stoic about
things that are not working cuz I feel
like in life 10 things are not working
at the same time so I take that thing
which is not working and my avoidant
type puts it in a compartment and I come
back to it after I fix three four of the
things but for that second what works
for me is compartmentalizing it's very
like uh stoic
nihilistic in its
origin that seems to be a common trait
as
well and what made it even more
interesting is one is bootstrapped one
is a public company and one is a largely
funded company so we covered broad
spectrum what we think are the
prerequisites to be successful in a
startup I think Manish had something
else story very very important almost as
important as a product we your story
even if it is
embellished in the very beginning in a
manner that is most appealing to the
audience you're try trying to cater to
Fair pay attention to detail every
little detail perfume
music what else did you say the tiny
details the horizontal creative of the
perfume how it's going to come to life
not having the logo on the Indian V
sizes are 2 in higher than be rigid on
that as well yeah people are here to
change you
yeah another big big commonality between
everybody who's a successful
entrepreneur is take
risk risk taking ability seems to be one
par higher In This Crowd of successful
ones versus everybody else having 10
Crowes and taking a 37 cow loan leaving
home uh and
doing uh art which is the most
counterintuitive thing that anybody
would do Beyond a course in nit learning
to be a computer programming teacher
yeah multiple times uh going to New York
in your first year of marriage all by
myself all by yourself moved out of
chandigar the only other city was Delhi
yeah for Rees I can't even begin there's
so much like so much in terms of taking
risk outside of what a conformist
conventional normal 20-year-old boy of
your age would have done what this paper
misses out is once you incorporate or
try to inculcate some of this the
underlying differentiator between a and
b and c and d is luck at the very core
of it I think you have to come to term
every single entrepreneur has to come to
terms with that but you know what I feel
is the bigger challenge than going from
0er to one is finding the gumption in
you to reinvent yourself after the
ecosystem around you has built up your
ego into a bubble to come to terms with
the fact that you have become complacent
faster than the market tells you yeah
yeah I and that's how the incumbents
lead right yeah like Facebook's greatest
example is ditching the metav and then
flipping back and making Instagram the
heart of their business which is of
course now become into com back to
creativity look last one week like if
you look at the Facebook stock price
Facebook looks like nav bat and should
we should we add that surrounding
yourself by people who are able to
say Outsiders often who are able to say
to your face you're screwing up yeah I
think that's very very important I think
that's extremely important at the end of
every episode we do this one we doing
after a long time we've not put anything
out for two months
at the end of every
episode uh we pay forward a little bit
of the good luck we have gotten and we
fund uh someone young someone we were
talking to through this episode uh a 21
22 year old boy or girl so we'll all uh
commit a certain amount of money we'll
have a process where we open it up like
you got your teal Fellowship we'll try
to create our own Fellowship that's nice
and we'll get applications we'll share
all the applications with everyone here
and we arrive at who should get the
fellowship or the investment from all
four of us together perfect this process
will take a little bit of time like 15
20 days but we'll run it what if we call
it WTF Founders Fellowship yeah it's a
nice name have you done this before WTF
fund yeah yeah we do it at the end of
each episode we do something or the
other we did one for influencers we did
one we did we paid a couple of
Charities EV sector so how about we four
of us yeah we all give something small
like 10 lakhs each or 20 lakhs each to
four Founders at the end of it uh as a
grant yeah do you think works perfect
you guys are okay with that absolutely
should we do 20 lakhs each 20 lakhs each
charging and we'll we'll put like a like
a
Draft application that they can put out
and we'll all four of us review it
however we can find time and we can all
pick one each perfect yeah very nice
done super thank you guys hopefully one
of them will be a guest in your podcast
like zepto guys absolutely teal
Fellowship it could even be you could be
anyone of us yeah uh which we will help
support so I'll be very happy thank you
guys so much for coming and spending so
much time thank you for having us thank
you thank you thank you so much
Nik we have to do one the longest
podcast that I would ever show in my
life I think do you guys realize in in
our attempt to define the prerequisites
of a successful
entrepreneur that a 21y old can emulate
we've been speaking for 8 hours without
a real break really 8 yeah it's 4:00
a.m. what yeah I have to leave then I my
flight is at 5:15 oh god seriously say
really
really okay we definitely not getting
the HR you're not getting
the
