older than me and I'm the fourth so do
you work with any of them no so the
eldest sister works for one of uh the
subsidiar of S&P mhm second sister
standard in po yes uh the rating agency
the rating agencies one of their U you
companies required what are they doing
giving India such bad rating look I
think uh it's a big problem we are also
rated by moodies and fit same and what
is it now Double B minus I think we are
b-rated now but no no I think we're BB
minus as India oh sorry I was telling
the oo
rating so you know I'll tell you it's
such big problem we don't talk about it
enough every country's cost of borrowing
is dependent on how we are rated by
these three arbitrary
agencies criteria of rting six are
quantitative in nature like uh GDP rate
fiscal deficit inflation past track
record of servicing debt the other 10 or
11 parameters are arbitrary in nature
it's more coming around perception and
stuff like that and at Triple B minus
correct me if I'm wrong later but I
think it's Triple B minus now our cost
of borrowing is higher than countries
which are oneth our size let's say
kazakistan has the same rating as us or
slightly lower or
whatever slightly better rating let's
assume kazakistan has better than us I
don't think they do I think they're
slightly below us in the table if
they're able to borrow money at 5% for
infra projects building roads train
Airport whatever we land up borrowing at
62% a 20year term loan if you're
borrowing 10,000 cror in reality that
these numbers are significantly larger
than 10,000 when we are paying back at
the end of 20 years with the dollar this
10,000 we are paying back maybe 25,000
they are paying back 17 18,000 that tiny
difference in rating
changes a cost of infra significantly
and it is not just for the country right
it's also for corporations who whose
source of income is India so if you are
an Indian Corporation you may be like
any big company you don't get a a rating
because your Sovereign itself is not
rated enough but this is something we
all need to make noise about like U I
think what these three agencies together
are doing is extremely unfair and bad
very detrimental to the long-term growth
of India going back I think the eldest
sister has sort of been a s so I was
coming to everyone the second one uh is
now between jobs uh she's left uh
cognizant and because she's not joined
I'll not share but she's gone to a moved
to a consulting company uh elder brother
works for M
tree uh and I'm the uh fourth one how
have the equations between the siblings
changed because you are such an outlier
today equation among siblings how are
you guys growing up and how are you now
look I I think growing up essentially
the there was a unique uh perspective
where the eldest sister was like a
little mom of sorts right because the
age difference was so high and she was
sort of in our family the first women
who uh you know she was among uh the top
rankers in her school when she graduated
out of 10th like the overachiever uh
gazel right so she was the first one who
went to engineering school uh she got a
job uh at TCS so like our dreams at
least my dreams where this kind of
villages you explain you are coming from
or District or taluk I don't know how do
you how do your parents even think to
educate all of you with such
high pedigree I
mean is one
basic flying out all four no so and I
think a large part of it I think is
driven by as much as my parents I would
give credit to the eldest sister also so
because she pursued that path and
everyone followed then every like it
basically became like a little bit of
and every Elder and younger sibling will
relate with this if your Elder sibling
got through good grades in your class
and graduated and if the same class
teachers there they'll say look at your
elder sister or brother they did so well
and like what are you doing so it sort
of becomes a little bit of a pure
pressure right so I think she for the
first time I think um I think I was
still in my junior or middle school
between somewhere between third and
fifth grade and she had just gotten into
her um engineering school first year and
she had what was the entrepreneurship
Fest so she went to bampur which is a
place in urisa it's a bigger town uh for
her engineering
schooling so she came back during her
break and she comes and says uh we had
an entrepreneurship Fest M I had no idea
what that word meant M so that was the
first time I figured that that there is
this new word being eldest sister like
mother figure the other two yeah so I
think the younger sister second sister
was little bit like the
um person you create trouble with right
like you know uh were you naughty I I
was quite naughty I know I know of some
of the naughty things You' have done as
an adult but think dig a Little Deeper
as a child I have no idea what you're
talking about I would want to know
what's that
take deeper as a child and the brother
brother
um it was a mix of uh I would say
um learning and also that one sibling
that you fight a lot with that's a
combination right so I think so for
example uh my uh love for sports started
with him uh because he and his friends
would play sports and I wanted to be a
part of the group this again is
something I hear from a lot of
successful
entrepreneurs some affiliation to sports
I've never been able to figure out what
the connection is but actually even when
we recruit people uh we uh try and
recruit um people who have been good in
sports especially why is that do they do
better at they do very well with us
there two three reasons why I have
deciphered the outcome the first is
especially we P we'd like to get people
from team sports so we believe that
their ability to work with other people
in make sure that the team wins rather
than individual is better pursuit of
Excellence because in sports you are
competitive you want to win uh you don't
want to um sort of be average as as an
outcome would you say Clarity of thought
important for an entrepreneur I think CL
like I call myself in a company Chief
Clarity officer I think fundamentally
one of the biggest challenges I think
that's probably the similar word of
rigid that you were saying I think
having a clear answer versus saying that
um I don't know like I don't know how
it's going to come and let's derive it
out of 20 other things and or whatever
people are saying let's do it I think
that fundamentally is different I would
say this proof for any leaders you can
be an entrepreneur I think he had that
to a certain he had that and even she to
some extent right like she said this is
the kind of product I want to BU so I
think that um so you say that some of or
most or whatever some of your decisions
also come by your gut and just without
being a very derived formula let's sit
and get a calculation done or you just
feel I'm very clear it will happen and
let's look I I think uh probably given
today I've been hearing a lot of depth
in conversation I'll try and sort of go
a little bit deeper in in that construct
right so I feel that most of my
decisions are uh genuinely actually a
derivation uh of many things but uh what
comes out at the end is the gut
feeling um so uh I think how would you
define gut gut the word so so in my view
the gut feeling is a summation of
experiences I have had um um uh good or
bad uh but I have gone through some
experiences where I have learned that
well this works for me and this doesn't
work for me and sometimes what works for
me may not work for anyone else and what
works for others may not work for me and
I'm very comfortable with that I have no
uh formo of saying that well it works
for someone else
I'm I have a interest to learn why it
worked for others but uh I don't have um
the the so that's that's what I sort of
Define gut as uh from my perspective um
and I think being cont like it's sort of
it means that you have to be contrarian
uh I feel being contrarian is the other
thing that as an entrepreneur is very
valuable right like you have to be able
to sort of have an opinion which maybe
the average people around you do not um
and basically mass is generally wrong
relative
basically what everybody else believes
you don't have to believe maybe that's
that means the same thing that is a
startup right yeah yeah absolutely I
think the startup is fundamentally
saying that what everybody so
fundamentally you have to build
something which is against convention if
it is convention the incumbent will
likely do it better by virtue of
experience and time yeah yeah and the M
of capital yeah yeah absolutely
absolutely so I think going back right I
think uh uh my trist with
entrepreneurship or the first word came
there before that my elder sister used
to say that she wanted to be a pilot so
when people would ask me what do you
want to be I used to say I want to be a
pilot even I used to say that as a kid
right yeah stupid astronaut I I had no
[Laughter]
idea if she's saying it
I tried to figure out from the
dictionary what it
meant I started saying I want to be an
entrepreneur so my rebellious nature was
this that I tried to sort of be
different contrarian this is again
something which is common to a lot of
successful entrepreneurs Rebel often
Without a Cause yeah often without a c I
think isn't it it's more a lot of
startups nature only
this all coming coming down to the same
thing Rebel contrarian against
convention anti-incumbent
right same thought absolutely absolutely
and I think where does the
rebelliousness come from was it
rebelling against your parents in the
early days or what they wanted you to do
no I think um quite the contrary
actually my parents um relatively they
felt that the Elder three children had
done so all right that they in some way
um also motivated to become me to become
slightly more rebellious like they were
generally more comfortable with me doing
things which they were absolutely not
comfortable with the Elder three
children which is probably also the
reason I never stole right like where
basically if I asked for it often they
would give me uh which was not the case
for my Elder Elder siblings so
uh and and I think I'm truly thankful to
that extent like I feel like if I was
probably just born as a third child i'
would not be who I am i' I I'd be who I
am only because I'm the youngest of the
lot I generally middle kids are more
rebellious cuz they have to set
themselves apart makes sense the top and
bottom organically get attention as long
as they know the last one in their
surpris like for example even then the
middle ones are still the rebellious at
one point of time principal said because
he jumped the fence and came late da d
da for 7 days he can't come to school
like if any of my Elder siblings had got
that uh decision from the principal I
think uh they were up for
like lot of P Dart uh there was no
coming back from it like for me it was
like you know Mom sat me down she said
you shouldn't do this Dad said he's a
young kid happens so I felt you know I'm
I'm I should take full advantage of it
and and be as rebellious as I can so
great communication with your parents
good communication with parents I think
more with Papa uh but uh because Dad was
more the person who said do whatever you
want to be um uh he uh but Mom was the
one who would possibly sort of be the
more uh like you have to study well like
if you don't do that you'll like be in
Rara and run like a pant shop uh right
like so Mom would paint the
contradictions much more uh actively um
communication skills continue in
companies like in OU yes I think uh
that's a very critical one let me let me
rephrase that question if your
management is doing something that is
annoying you to on a scale of 1 to
10 I might bring it up when it's 5 out
of 10 do you bring it up at 5 out of 10
2 out of 10 8 out of 10 how how quickly
do you
communicate I think the feedback loop is
or the communication Loop is quite quick
um I would now annoying the magnitude is
quite small yeah I'll just uh yeah I'll
just uh basically sort of uh swing it to
say allowing me may not be like there
the magnitude may be very high but
anything that I believe that is wrong
for the company or wrong for the um role
or the purpose they're pursuing I think
I feel very comfortable to have a
one-on-one
conversation bring it up but along with
calling myself Chief Clarity officer I
consider myself also a solution officer
so I bring up the problem but I often
couple that with a solution uh but I
feel very comfortable in bringing up a a
conversation I feel while in my family
that was very valuable I think there was
one person who changed it for me I think
uh the person is beul Somaya at light
speed yeah so be invested in us
like they invest very fast H yeah like
they take no time at all they took a
long time that was different story back
there was one company we were reviewing
recently not name the company so we were
negotiating with the founder and he had
come to the office in the afternoon he
went to light speed at night he came
back to us in the next evening and he
said light speed signed the term sheet
light speed yeah no light speed has they
call themselves as a high conviction
investor so they say that we invest very
little like they would invest in a year
like four five companies or three four
companies but in the ones they believe
in they would move very very quickly but
with us they took longer I don't know
why maybe they took took longer to
believe but um I had so they invested
your self-deprecating nature is very
attractive do you think that also holds
Good in the work ecosystem cuz we are so
used to looking at people who are
embellishing thems
constantly that that one startup which
comes to you and self deprecates becomes
a novelty do you think that works contan
mindset in a different manner yeah I
think in some way but I I have learned
that you know that the only way
especially um if you have a highly
talented management right who you want
to retain for a long period of time
there is no other way uh you can work
with them rather than being absolutely
um absolutely straightforward honest
vulnerable uh with them and then because
you spend most of the time most people
don't recognize it but they spend more
time with their colleagues than with
their own families also so due to which
you basically become an average of the
people around you that's my favorite
line in the office I said I know you
more than your wife you spend 11 hours
here 10 hours here so to that extent but
I think um I feel personally that also
comes when you become truly comfortable
in your skin I think the reason why the
self embellishing character gets spilt
is because you genuinely have a sense of
insecurity where you feel like
self-deprecating nature
of you know what will it mean can I ask
you another question I'm sorry I'm
digressing as much retes and oo dissect
the two apart from each other retes the
kid rates the teenager rates the young
adult ratesh at
30 what do you think are your
personality flaws and it's very core
I've come back to this because we stole
money from our mother's purses you did
not so there must be something else that
we need to know the rebel in some way FL
no no I'll conclude that the rebel in
some way I think came out of a
personality flaw uh of trying uh new
things and the flaw in it is potentially
um lesser attention span um or lesser
Span in I give less time to something to
fully um uh Bake open right like
um I feel I tried to do too many things
in the early days of our company and I
feel when I fully decided that I'm
I'll ask you another question which
might help with this answer yeah think
of a kid I keep coming back to kids I
don't yes think of a no I agree with
that 3 to S I think that's when your um
you know your your formation or
Foundation is individual is buil yeah
think of a kid
okay uh I'm in a room with a kid I put a
marshmallow in front of the kid I say
I'm going to go out of the room make a
phone call and come back into the room M
if the marshmallow in front of you I
tell the kid is still there when I come
back I will give you two
marshmallows then you'll have two
instead of
one when people tested kids actually
they figured that 80% of kids are not
able to delay gratification until the
person goes out of the room and comes
back and they eat the marshmallow 80%
yeah and when they track the 20% of kids
over a 15 20 30 40 year period they
figured there's
tangible evidence to prove that the kids
who were able to delay
gratification turned out to be the most
successful when they grew up M do you
think not being able to delay
gratification could be a flaw in
you personally don't bias it on what I
have to say I'll tell you the two
personality traits which is confusing me
about this question I have very high
ability of delaying gratification in
terms of wealth creation for
instance um on the other hand I have
very low ability to delay
gratification in terms of beginning the
pursu that I wanted and I'll give
examples of both in a tangible way so
it'll explain this to you better I
genuinely fell in love with this idea
that you know I will go digitize small
hotels and I thought the time is now and
I said I'll do it now this is right
after 12th grade first Papa got to know
and he tried to reason with me saying
that you
know get your college done and then do
this and I said you know I like I
genuinely believe the time is now and of
course Papa having better communication
he both of us then came up with what the
communication to Mom will be which
basically became all the kids in our
12th grade are taking a gap year
consider this the Gap year and if it
doesn't work I'll move back so this is
where I did not deal
gratification On The Other Extreme I
think uh probably just Soo is this year
completing 10 years so we are a we've
been around for some time probably until
three or four years back uh I had a few
liks in my bank account M right you
never did secondary I never did
secondaries because uh the purpose and
the enthusiasm was so exciting that
nothing else mattered um in terms of
context so I think um there is a
conformity in me also I have I a unique
combination of rebellious and Conformity
so for example can I can I take away
from your last statement you're able to
delay gratification when it comes
to money paid out to you without
complicating how that sounds secondary
round but you find it harder to delay
gratification when it comes to growth or
when it comes to public perception I
think I think money paid out to me I'm
willing to delay gratification I'm
unable to delay gratification when it
comes to
um intellectual stimulation which comes
why I think uh you know solving problems
right I think finding same problem new
problems cuz once a problem is solved it
becomes less intellectually stimulating
right yeah no which means new problems I
think which is which is the whole point
I was going back to right that uh for me
I last five years I had to change myself
fundamentally to try and make sure that
every day I reviewed the same thing
because businesses are inherently boring
at some level right so you have to make
sure that there's the 30% excitement
which is solving a new problem uh
creating a product feature or one of
those things but 70% of it is just Ops
right like doing the same job little bit
better every day um and that did not
come naturally to me I think I had to
train myself to become the that person
who do you emulate rates the person who
we all pick someone and do it
consciously and subconsciously I think
as a business person somebody who at
least over the last five years when I
said that I tried to transform myself
especially with the onset of covid or
around the four years maybe I think that
is UD kotak I think I feel like he's one
of those people again first generation
entrepreneur most people don't recognize
built a bank first
generation he king of delaying
gratification yeah and you you sit with
him in the room there's a sense of like
and every time he begins inti
saying so he like there's just a sense
of when you begin the discussions with
him there's a sense of um like the world
may be
burning and he will represent that in
words but he would not emote it in
actions right I agree with you 100% but
if you have to derive something from
this for a 21y old we talking to
today what do you think people like UD
kotak his generation had that the 21y
old today is lacking which is relevant
to the world of today I would say three
things the first one is being absolutely
comfortable to make sure that when your
friends are sharing beautiful Instagram
stories of going to pubs restaurants or
very exciting
places um
you are pursuing things which are not
exciting and you sort of tend to believe
that it is because of your
circumstances would you say that's
delaying gratification that's delaying
gratification but I'm just trying to put
it going to going to a pub is instant
pleasure Center yes right yes there's
there's a psychologist who said a very
interesting thing what is the difference
between pleasure and
enjoyment pleasure is having that piece
of chocolate which has sugar in it
pleasure is having a beer maybe pleasure
becomes
enjoyment when there is a gap between
two pleasurable events and you add
memory to it memory happens by virtue of
adding a group around it yeah no I think
this um the other way to put it is if
you look at there's this Netflix
documentary which is I think it's called
the Blue lines or blue zones BL zones
blue zones right which talks about
longetivity and
longetivity has something similar which
talks about a sense of community
happiness but at the same time making
sure that your food habits Etc are sort
of not designed for short-term pleasure
but long-term enjoyment rather okay
delaying ratification not not succumbing
to the short-term Pleasures absolutely
and also not having to conform to
average people like average um uh pure
pressure around you right like I think
don't you think this generation has that
in check compared to UDOT in that
generation they were more conformist
than the 21 year olds of today I think
uh the 21 year olds uh have if I were to
uh reverse the word of uh Conformity
pure pressure to look the best on social
media to make sure they dress the best
to make sure that they have the best
number of posts to make sure they have
the most number of likes so you would
say social pressure social social
pressure that's probably a better word
to it um but I think to avoid it to
significant extent is a very critical
thing because that pressure is so high
and so noisy today that it can end up
pushing you towards doing things with no
patience no patience underline if that
is there at least they can handle all
that because and I grew up in like
similar generation now I think 10 years
back is already a generation apart but I
think 10 years back when I was growing
up uh people around me would look at me
and say that guy's a dock right like
absolutely dock studying all the time
doing business who does this when they
are
19 and if you uh get bothered by
it you will lose in my view the number
one thing that it takes to get an
entrepreneurial success or any success
which is perseverance like being at it
for long periods of time because there
there are so many reasons to give up no
right should not get one one layer under
your skin so for example like I told one
of my
friends
is Metro
station in Delhi bti is like um a
thatched roof uh room at the top of a
house so that's where I used to live
when I first moved like most people who
mov to Delhi live there
so but I had never told him it's ATI
because you don't tell a normal I just
said right like a usual kit this was a
wealthy kid there were some kids I was
friend not when I was starting my
business in Delhi a usual kid would have
gotten so
bothered that they would have stopped
calling people to meet themselves but
for me it was very comfortable I was
very okay with saying that people will
say this to
me and if I do well in life it'll be all
right if not then this is the means I
have so being okay to let go of social
pressure is what I would encourage and I
also got bothered by it a lot of times
was when I was 19 19 but I also got
bothered by it but I
recognized what can be
[Music]
wor
they were similar Rebels Without a
Cause so UD kotak you said so first is
delay gratification delay gratification
second is not social no social PR as
indifference is the new cool
indifference is the new cool absolutely
and the third one is I think a sense of
humility and humility in decisions which
uh can be very large so for example now
is when I meet young entrepr you think
humility is counterintuitive to
self-confidence which we established is
a prerequisite for someone looking to
start up no I think they they are
independent uh strong characteristics I
think you can can you be self-confident
and humble yes you can be self-confident
give me a for instance so uh
self-confident would mean that I can
build oo into a incredible success
humble is um it's the first time I'm
building a hotel business so um I don't
know what will go in this journey but I
will figure it out so I think that's at
least that's my view but to the third
point will you add to the end of that
line can you help me his point of no ego
willing to bend your back absolutely
absolutely and I and I'll explain an
example with UD kotak's example right he
built a fantastic franchise um in his
previous AAR before the bank M and he
was so he started a um Bild discounting
business if I remember it
right he was okay to add the Mahindra
name to the bank mhm right he had built
a big business he didn't need to do it
yeah but he was okay to do it nowadays
when I meet entrepreneurs who have just
started the business not all like 90% of
them like I'm surprised young
entrepreneurs can be so bright and they
have all these characteristics but
there's some people who have this sense
of saying that a sense of um superiority
that I have done so much already ready M
I think um for people in that generation
like him like Naran morti and various
others they built incredible businesses
but we're still able to accept that but
in comparison I'm still aring error and
I have to do a lot more and I think that
was that humility that allowed them to
become you know a bigger version of
themselves uh consistently they say
people who made a lot of money very
quickly often hate themselves in the
world so
subconsciously do
you often hate themselves and the world
try you find yourself or somewhere yeah
like deep
down do don't know yeah I think uh I I
interesting question though I'm in
absolute I I I like myself and you know
I try to uh do more to like myself
humility also allows you allows a lot of
common people to accept you on a very
easy approachable manner
otherwise hum honest in my be so
surrounded with your own self and your
XYZ
humility but you should at the same time
be able to accept that their things
you other people who have done better
than you I want to understand
that that people who have made a lot of
money very quickly deep down hid
themselves it's there's a certain
Pathway to arrive at the conclusion I
think it passes through imposter complex
imposter syndrome yeah I I could relate
it to
that yeah but I think the Imposter
complex serious one right like I
genuinely believe that I had I have no
business sitting here right
likea town would have gotten lus if I
had gotten infosis uh assistant
technical engineer well that is the
starting job called in which you get
three lakh salary like if I had gotten
that our town would have celebrated I
would have been super happy my mom for
the longest time thought that I have
gotten into friendship with wrong people
who have gotten me to this
entrepreneurship buz so I
[Music]
think like there was by mistake I got
into a classroom and it has happened
many times in life I'll give you an
example which is very close story and
I've never talked about it but very
close to my
heart so after 12th grade what changed
my life was a theal fellowship so Peter
the is a founder of PayPal early invest
in
Facebook how does a 12th grader know
about who Peter thel is Rebel Without a
Cause $50,000 $100,000 $1,000 right
to big deal right now how does the 12th
grader get to know even about
Peter so Rebel Without
a
ship social network
mov in that there is this person called
Peter who gives the first $100,000 check
so next time I go to a cyber how does
that work just for people who are
watching and
interested not just teal Fellowship but
anything similar that they'd like to
apply for how does one find out where
these scholarships are and apply for
them look I found it through Serendipity
but I will give a few examples that I'm
aware of and some of the things that I'm
also doing as an outcome so theal
Fellowship is one which is a program
started by Peter theel where he gives
$100,000 to 20 people earlier it used to
be age limitation under the age of 20
acceptance rates are lower than IV leaks
but there's one condition you have to
stop out of
college right if you're in college if
you're in college I was not in college
so it was easier and the thesis behind
it the contract's first line says we
never let University interfere with
education so education is everywhere
including the WTF podcast um but you
don't have to go to university for it
but University is one of the sources of
it you can also pursue education there
so um I was a theal fellow but there are
other theal fellows like the founder of
ethereum is a theal fellow which is a
cryptocurrency founder of figma figma is
a design tool very popular over the
years so a bunch of these people who are
exceptionally successful came to the
fellowship and everybody has very
similar backgrounds right young people
they were Rebel Without a Cause wanted
to make a positive difference but coming
back the fellowship is one in India
there's something called the Young India
found uh young India Fellowship very
popular Yi Fellowship I think it's
called it's very popular great uh Sim
not similar it's very different uh but
again something that allows young people
to be able to pursue their aspirations
but this one I think only invites
graduates post uh undergrad so basically
after that if you want to sort of be a
part of the fellowship I think something
very different is teach for India I
think that's another way of making sure
basically what are the communities where
you can find people who are slightly
rebellious who are trying to do
something new in life who are creative
who want to do something new it may have
been art for you it may have been um
being in um you know uh the company of
inditex and and their uh you know
ecosystem so I think fundamentally just
finding people around you that's
education actually huh that's education
right you learn from them and it also
allows you to get it in any University
you don't get it in any University so I
think that's the third one I'm doing
something with something that's called
The naropa Fellowship it's started by
the drpa of ladak again of course uh the
person who's involved between Ashoka
University naropa haraa is all the same
so Ashish and this other person Prat sa
is the person who's involved and I think
similar fellowship and what I have done
with them is started a naropa rites
Fellowship where we basically these are
mostly hilly terrain kids kids gotten
out of college want to do something new
so I give them Equity free debt free
grants because the theal fellowship
changed my life so I thought can I help
make difference same with the zepto kids
they got a 40 lakh Grand they built
zepto in the back of that really yeah
was that the game changer after 12 theal
theal Fellowship was a game changer I
think that changed my life were you like
a great student up until that point like
first rank types not first rank I think
third fourth second to Fourth rank in
until 10th grade same thing yeah uh but
11th 12th grade not so much no why uh
because um so I think until 10th grade I
was in Raa post 10th grade most kids go
outside for Education right uh so my
Elder three siblings one went to um I
think other towns in udisa only bigger
towns um because in our town the only
way to get that was one college and that
wasn't like most preferred route but
parents had some savings because Elder
three siblings most of them got one of
their degrees through uh what is called
scholarship so parents had some savings
so I said Rebel to I want to go to Kota
Rajasthan Kota is much more expensive to
send a child to than that of somewhere
in odisa right because you have to send
uh three-day trains both sides so you
are the Kota Factory I'm I'm a part of
the Kota factory production so during
those two years I used to sort of um uh
you know intern in small companies and
so
on while of course education education I
was not the first second ranker but
still reasonably good ranker so I was
not like I was terrible uh in terms of
impact so parents were generally
comfortable so I was not the kaga top
kids I was medium so I did all
right so 12th grade beach around right
after 12th
grade that is when I applied for the the
fellowship and became a theal fellow um
the first time I got a call so I applied
uh because I heard about Peter the apply
this I'm not where is this the you apply
online online you apply online and it's
just online class digital application no
class submit when you make the
application just a bunch of questions
bunch of about what business Do you want
to build what did you say oo I didn't
call it oo then but I but effectively
the idea was the oo idea which I
proposed accommodation with some
standardization that we can provide um I
think fundamentally post those questions
there was no other Asian resident who
had become a fellow before me so I gave
myself 0% chance to become a fellow but
I enjoyed the questions I answered them
then interview started so there
telephone interviews so the product head
of Twitter will get on an interview with
you for a 12th grader to be on an
interview with people like those was a
big deal and I would do it like on a
feature phone of one of the friends
basati friends who was staying next to
me one day I get this call which is you
among the top 40 candidates selected and
will'll fly you to the US and you can
pitch and 20 would get selected post the
pitch I was like so excited about it the
reason was not because I thought I'll
become a theal fellow I still give
myself 0% chance it was my first flight
and international flight trip I would
ever get for free somebody else was
paying for it
so life is made right so but again
coming back to how parents are helpful
I got like a few days in that period mom
got the passport made I didn't have a
passport for US Visa I didn't know was
so hard and and yeah this is an example
of why I believe that genuinely I'm
lucky so I was told
biometric they send a letter you give
the letter you get the visa and you have
to go to Delhi or Bombay or no I was in
Delhi only so it was even easier so I
got when biometric done next day was the
interview now interview I thought that
letter
so I basically was wearing shorts had my
hair all over and I reached the US
Embassy and I see people are wearing
jackets ties have big books interviewing
each other so I thought maybe they have
come here for some job interview some
different work my work is
different that's the level of coming to
self-confidence very self-confident I
reached the interview lady and right
like as as I get closer line us
so I thought different but reaching the
counter we were all in the same counter
path so I'm starting to feel that
something different but I was still
convincing myself that they start making
your hair Peter theel has given me a
letter in my mind I thought that you
know he must like the Visa will be given
immediately so the lady asked what's
your purpose of visit to the
US so I say I want to drop out by
becoming a theal fellow she listens
Dropout and in her mind goes this guy is
going to go to the gas station
next that's his plan and weirdly he's
being honest about it
also I only learned this later because
then she
says uh do you have uh like if that's a
purpose of visit is there an education
also you want to pursue I say yes theal
Fellowship can be considered as
education so she said do you have any
documentation for it I said there's this
letter so she said
uh unfortunately it doesn't seem like we
can give you the Visa but we can't also
return you the passport so typically if
they reject the Visa they give you back
the passport so I said you can't reject
the Visa first off and second my flight
is day after tomorrow so you return the
passport to me anyway she says
unfortunately that's not how it
works and shuts down the window I came
back home I cried like crazy because I
thought
that
and before that I had cold emailed so
many people I had cold emailed like 100
people saying that I want to come see
like your office or so on like I cold
emailed God bless him ton sh of Zap and
so on
say so anyway long story short um you
know I wrote to the the fellowship as
well saying that they didn't give me the
Visa can you write a letter to them so
that there's some credibility they wrote
a letter and the embassy was nice to
later give me the
Visa I got to the flight next day even
the flight was a weird thing I had a
lansa flight the lansa flight got
cancelled the fellowship was nice to
book a British Airway right after so I
think just fundamentally for me I feel
like this long story is just to say
that anything could have gone wrong in
this the Visa could not have come the
flight would not have uh uh you know
happened something could have gone wrong
so in life we forget when we reached to
this point there were probably 200
things that had to go right
and if that one thing did not go right
You' probably be in a very different
place you say Serendipity a little bit
more than usual yes true true belief in
that I have true belief I have true
belief in
um if you work hard um uh opportunities
will come your way um which otherwise
would not have what have been the most
serendipitious
events that you can remember if you were
to name just two just two
the US Embassy I'm guessing is one yes
so that's one I'll try the second one I
think the second one is actually I'll
say two uh two more one is um possibly
how I met Anuj most people don't know
Anuj Anuj and I started oo together so
before oo I was running oravel for 6
months and then I flipped to oo he
joined me in oravel and then we together
pivoted to make it too he still with you
he's still with me so um
at that when I was running arrival it
was me and one intern both of us to run
the company sahil was the intern sahil
of course had told me when he was
interviewing that after 2 to 3 years
once he makes enough money he will set
up a restaurant and he'll leave me so
two to the fact 3 years later he left
and now runs fantastic couple of
restaurants in Bombay um so Anu calls he
wherever he figures about arrival he
calls the call
center sahil picks up he thinks it's a
big
says can I can you connect me to the
Chairman's
office
says he hands over the every all of us
have gone through the stories right we
have I get the phone and I keep and I'm
telling
on but
any and an speaks and you know he's is
opposite of me right like he went to
itbu built his business during school
sold it uh went to uiu for some
internship but then had come and joined
a consulting company and was hitting it
so he wanted to leave it and build
something so we speak for 50 minutes and
he said I have explored Airbnb in the US
this is my view so I I made as much
copious notes as I could and at the end
I said that those it's been great
talking to you but I can't afford you
but I learned so much the day I can
afford you we'll chat again
then he says but I'm I'm happy to meet
you I said if you want to meet after
hearing what you have heard be my guest
please come so he came again we spent an
hour I learned more at the end I again
said but can't uh afford you so he said
there is this thing called ESOP I don't
need salary I'm going to offer no salary
I'll in fact put some money if
required but you give me esops so I said
this is a great thing without salary you
will work so I said perfect done esops
so he said I want whatever I think I
don't remember 3 and a half or 4% es I
said
perfect so that was my concept of
learning of ESOP in the first time like
the
appreciation
well like depreciation of yours correct
correct so I thought this is fantastic
later I recognized that you know this is
probably one of the best dishs teate but
for me it was a because for the first
time I saw what working with somebody
who was who understood process who
understood systems who could document
what did that look like was before that
I only worked with interns I didn't have
appreciation of anybody else outside of
that second is beel right like I was in
the during the the fellowship in the
US um he beel was also in the US because
light speed has a uh like the main
office in the US I met him uh uh and at
the end of it we said that it's been
great meeting each other we'll reconnect
sometime
H they kept doing the work in India we
had one oo Hotel then we then opened
another so they visited those hotels
they visited other hotels they met the
property owners then one day called us
saying that we want to try and do
something with you um I think beel also
I think other than the fellowship Peter
the beel changed my life I think he was
uh I think the other person who I tried
to emulate a lot is I think beel I think
he has a sense of calm he like this uh I
I I I think so uh and and I think uh he
he's uh genuinely like feedbacks for
example communication I'll give you an
interesting example of an uncomfortable
conversation I brought it up right so we
had a call center like most companies
and I used to be the call center person
who would pick up calls customer call I
make the booking and I used to love it
because you speak to customer directly
such an amazing job right so even after
they invested I kept doing that job so
he would invite me every month for lunch
I'd go to that lunch so he feed me very
well at the end he says sures I hear
your loving your call center job I say
it's great I listen to customers and so
on so he says in his like at the end
that so that's great we found the call
center head of Oo we should now start
finding the CEO should we start a
process I said look I get it I get it
that what I'm doing is not my job and we
will recruit someone but I think ability
to say something in such a nice kind way
that at that room you feel like you know
it's a objective feedback but when you
walk out you feel that that was a pretty
intense feedback uh is something I've
learned from him I guess and Beyond 12th
what happened the's Fellowship yeah
$1,000 came back to India so I was there
in the US for four five months uh lived
in a hacker house with other the fellows
um but came back to India in 2013 mid m
M uh we uh that was we was me Anuj and
couple of interns at that point of time
and then sort of uh at the similar time
light speed chose to invest a few months
later light speed invested I think 3.5
crores at a 8 CR valuation U Back Then
it's a huge deal for us I think uh I had
never seen a COR together in a bank
account in my life um uh before that so
it put just a sense of accountability
that now you have to like make good that
there's somebody else who's willing to
commit so much Capital behind you and I
think uh this since 2013 um end roughly
or 2014 early is when we really started
growing the business and um uh you know
we've we've continued in that path we've
gone through our highs and lows as you
uh may have observed you read uh that
there were orbitar there was K like I
feel what helped you deal with the lows
what personality trade
look I think
um two things right
um
fundamentally one we got more love than
we deserved so if you remember that we
were getting too much appreciation
sometimes but sometimes we also got
beaten down a lot more I think the trait
off for a 20year
old um for them to have that one day at
College when they become the Superstar
and next week they are considered like
an
outcast I think
um I think the trait is um always being
an optimist about the future and knowing
that things will change uh either
positively or negatively I think I would
say optimism and coming to terms with
the cyclical nature of yes and and
coming to awareness of cyclicality yeah
I would say that one needs to just be
um aware and comfortable that uh if an
amitab bachan was in Crazy debt and
everybody wrote him off he can come back
to become one of the wealthiest stars in
less than 20 years most bankable stars
one of the most bankable stars and that
doesn't happen as an exception that's
pretty much the norm for anybody who can
stick their neck out and continue so I
think if you are a 20-year-old and I
have gone through this many
times where everybody around you thought
that you are a done deal the seven days
when I was kept out of school um and I
was a prefect at that point of time so
being a prefect and being told that out
you're uh suspended from school for some
time so that that is my unique um
contrarian perspective that I've always
had that I would be a prefect but I'd
also be slightly rebellious uh which is
sort of what you also mentioned earlier
in the perspective of saying that you
have this contrarian side to yourself so
I think in those times I think it's very
easy to give up and I was told that I'll
not give you the certificate of the
prefect because of this a tough time is
like a messy room you have to tidy it up
again because you want to live back in
this space so you have to be absolutely
comfortable that you know there will be
good days in the future and there will
be bad days and there will be good days
and if you're having great days you
should know that the bad days are coming
and whatever you can do to prepare for
it is better to do it are you guys also
optimistic guzzle are you
unreasonably optimistic not unreasonably
optimistic I am optimistic because what
I believe in it
is if it's good it won't last if it's
bad it won't last similar yeah you I'm
very optimistic actually it's also your
life's own behavior which gives you this
this builtup Factor on this I me you
take a loan and you think you will pay
back or not and instead of 15 years you
pay back in four years it's all every
expression of your journey and
everything that you've achieved and and
gone through gets you more and more
clear sight for the next uh episode that
you want to attack but I think that's a
fundamental difference I think all
entrepreneurs are optimistic and risk
risk taking and risk taking but I feel
that the persevering Optimist types are
the ones who create long-term
success I think the most people I have
found around
myself um like I feel and to your Point
N I also believe that not believe I I
know that I'm not the uh U you know uh
best engineer best salesperson best
Finance person any of those things right
but I feel in our industry all the
competitors we had whenever the tough
times came they gave
up the only thing different about us
funnily this is the first thing I wrote
about you when she was speaking
Relentless have you ever read any Makia
Val no the Eur European chanaka in a in
a way no no I've heard about them of
course you seem to embody a lot of what
he says you know if you all have watched
the movie 12 fail no not yet but I've
heard some incredible you should
absolutely watch it it is amazing so if
you watch that movie you will hear that
you will see that that kid comes from
chumble and he had that complex saying
that nobody else from chumble becomes an
IPS officer without cheating with
cheating cheating School IP
off but as Leaders I believe personally
that big heart trumps big brains have
you ever read towm anything on it again
everything you're
seeing European
Soul okay how did you deal with your
father passing away it was look I think
it was I I think I messaged you that day
but I read in the news and it you it
sounded like a life changing I think uh
I
think
um look I think I I don't think I have
fully processed it even today so I'm
still sort of there's a Spanish book it
takes three years to recover for a son
so I think nothing prepares you for a
loss of um somebody as close as that
okay so
you started uh with the teal Fellowship
money with your friend Anuj
oravel converted to oo when did the
scaling happen first year was very small
like I think 2014 We Grew From two
hotels to maybe 10 15 hotels still a lot
but not like massive I think the real
growth happened from 2014 all the way to
2017 which is where we went from a few
hotels in one City to becoming one of
the most prominent Hotel brands in India
in the economy and uh economy plus kind
of segment um
2019 is when the scaling then happened
globally we went from being an India
brand to becoming a globally prominent
brand so for example just in Europe we
manage 150,000 Holiday Homes so we have
a fairly large business in Denmark
Netherlands Germany and and few of these
geographies so I can relate with getting
to the cities out of the flight to your
Hotel do your job and come back so you
don't have me and GLE would switch
places with you guys any day they're
talking Milan
Madrid now I can get to do that for my
work my back in the time I would have
like loved to switch I'm here
only in terms of discipline there's one
discipline that I maintain is a holiday
every month every month every month
every month
amazing that one I can last 6 seven
years how long is the holiday weekend no
3 days 2 days 5 days whatever comes
every month every month that's amazing
like you go out somewhere of the
city go to JW golfshire and stay in the
hotel yeah it's a nice
idea you were describing post getting
funded post getting yeah so I think 2019
was a big Global
growth how much money did you guys end
up raising a lot right yeah we raised uh
close to a billion and a half dollars
overall overall little over that M right
so already I think in 2019 when we grew
This Global expansion and we also made
an couple of acquisition I think we were
starting to see Pains of growth Pains of
growth meaning how many hotels did you
have by then India you said
internationally you mentioned but India
similar as we have today I think GL
total already came down now we are
bouncing back so uh we're fairly sizable
business uh and if I add China it was
more at that point of time right so then
uh so what did Growing Pains mean
Growing Pains mean that natural
economics were bad right um and that was
bad in a very unique way 90% of our
hotels were Revenue share hotels 10%
were minimum guarantee those 10% hotels
drove most of the losses and 90% of them
were highly margin acreative
always um I think the management
bandwidth to a business of that
spread um and you never in reflection I
can say that we grew more than we should
have but at that point of time it's hard
to know when you GRE too much because
there's no Playbook like opening 30
stores is good 10 stores good 20 stores
is good there's no arithmetic to it and
it was never written by us also that
this year we'll do that many correct so
uh so how did you handle that stress of
having a billion dollar plus money into
the system someone's money right and
aaral Mar you know it
for the 20y old guy what's that weight
on that shoulder I mean I can't
even hold that up look I think uh and uh
plus accountability because once people
invest the capital then they require the
monthly update the regular reviews you
have any questions that can come up I
think fundamentally for me uh in the
early days especially the capital was
not a choice because I had no
resources to initi
I think India leadership sort of
happened
organically Global expansion that was in
my view driven by my own personal belief
in Impact like like what drives me every
day AK complex problems how many
people's lives I'm touching that
fundamentally I believe that that makes
a positive difference and good news is
that also commercially has a positive
impact because the more number of people
you are basically impacted in allows you
to be able to hopefully make some
additional outcome but it came with
challenges and there were mistakes made
I have no qualms about saying it so I
started fixing and consolidating 2020
early you think admitting mistakes
early sorry admitting mistakes early big
part of being successful I think so I
think admitting mistakes and saying Mia
kalpa is critical because a lot of
times early early yes uh the reason is
you know when you're having a you know
you effectively as a business leader or
an
entrepreneur you have to be able to make
decisions to make decisions it's
critical to have conversations which are
authentic and not
pretentious the only way you can have a
non-pretentious conversation is if the
elephant is uh uh out of the room if
people don't talk about elephant then
you can have
many but if you're able to say that
these are the mistakes that were made
and you have to be honest about it
because it is very um easy to understand
because
difference you can see it right like
because you can just come out of this
like you can go to indran nagar see a oo
hotel and say like see traces of what I
have said there and the other way around
in some context right or it's true for
all of our businesses that if mistakes
are made it will be visible at our this
is also very true for all successful
businesses because I see a lot of
Founders Not Having the courage to admit
that they've made a mistake and what
happens is they try and continue to
conceal it because they've pitched it in
a certain way they feel that the word is
so strong it becomes an ego problem and
they don't want to one admit it and
because of that they fall into that Loop
where you're not correcting the only way
to figure more lonely as an outcome
because more and more people sort of
desert you so I believe that admitting
mistake early is crucial and it is also
crucial to make sure that you are close
to your roots I think if you're uh when
you try to run away from mistakes it's a
very easy way of running away from
reality and then you sort of build a
world around yourself which is just
entire but anyway I think long story
short I think mistakes are made I was
consolidating by the time I could fix it
Mr Co knocked in the door on the doors
and said well uh you know we'll do it
faster right I'll make it harder for you
so imagine I had forward invested that
we will we will the year before c we
grew
300%
right covid hits so you had forward
invested for growth you're starting to
consolidate
but you're able to fund it partly
through the margins you're generating
from the current revenues right and
partly through external
financing with Cod 65% of your Revenue
overnight
evaporate right so in effect you have to
fund 100% or majority through external
financing there is a limit to the
capital available there's not infinite
Capital available with anyone especially
for a business that is shrinking a
business that is growing higher slower
you can debate but a business was shrunk
during covid so it was hard on us most
digital lead Brands right e-commerce
gaming industry they they all saw
massive ramp up during
covid now not travel here I am not where
my revenue is shrink 65% M and people
were basically calling right all the
entire deck right from my cxus to the
last person recruiters calling saying
stock
here's two or 3x salary
jump and these were other travel
companies no no our people are not
Specialists right our people are
technology people so you basically can
recruit them across mostly generalists
right in terms of construct so the
fungibility of talent is very high with
other tech companies so salary
stock lifestyle be
better you know things will be much
better an outcome so I think
fundamentally at that point of time I
feel like that one year was probably one
of the toughest ones as an operator to
drive but I think at the same time I
feel like that one year really
transformed our company as well as as
the way we think and operate I think now
we become very comfortable being a 30%
Growth
Company we are happy about it I think we
have a sense of semblance on what we
believe is our cash flow margins and for
us I think we have a consumer rating
expectation below which we will not grow
we have a merchant Revenue expectation
below which will not grow and we have a
margin expectation at the Eid and cash
flow
level want to grow as quickly as we can
we will not gr I think a lot of these
perspectives I think would have come
anywh over time but I think Co
accelerated that significantly without
giving a choice I think I think what
you're also saying is a big determinant
of
success is the ability to get punched
not necessarily punched
yeah and be sanguin about it and go
about yeah life yeah big precursor to
success right but I think any startup
Journey you got to like be okay to get
beat up yeah yeah you will definitely
get beaten up how fast are you able to
bounce back I think that's that's and
you don't kind of like react or yeah
yeah like you would have uh I've never
seen you like speak back on social media
or defend yourself in a weird manner in
a defense ensive manner right no I think
personally I think I have uh learned to
take criticism in a very like and I
believe it will be very valuable for
other young people listening
also like if if I read some of the
Business Leaders some people say that I
don't read news about us actually I'm
quite the contrary I read
everything I have no problem reading
everything but I can read everything and
feel comfortable
that so I think fundamentally criticism
can be constructive or it can be just
noise noise never sticks because Noise
by
design that I'm reading about myself
that I don't know about right like
there'd be some news of saying that AA
uh oo is buying some business in
Southeast Asia or some business in
Middle East I know there's no such to it
to some people
speculate it's done or something will
come about well U you knowes is going to
do something new very soon so I feel
like it's some noise it will not stick
what is your relationship with masayoshi
son how did it get inculcated has it
[Music]
SED look I think uh you asked who I you
know I often call him sonan given in
Japan you typically add a son at the end
um out of respect so I think sonan um is
first generation
entrepreneur um invested in Alibaba
quite early but his own Telecom business
which is now probably the most
profitable business in Japan and one of
the most profitable Telecom business in
the world uh in terms of
construct uh and then invested in alib
Baba which did very well and then set up
multiple software Eng Vision funds and
arm and few others I think so that's the
context behind who he is I think
um I would basically correlate it as
soft bank's relationship and within that
of course talk about sunsan I think I
got introduced to soft bank first time
in 2015 or 2016 right when we were in
that growth phase we in three cities
then just starting to take
off so uh I think Nikes introduced us
and Nikes did the work he's now the CEO
of PA Alto networks the deal was more or
less agreed between Nik and the broader
soft Bank team there was a broader soft
bank and soft Bank team uh at that time
they used to invest from the balance
sheet so that's how we uh got introduced
to each other in the first place so
before the fin investment decision is
made is you have to go and present to
sonan and he approves finally so I went
to Japan I was again very excited to go
to a new country I'm so I'm generally
the person who's always very happy and
excited about new places and new things
right like you know now the Shar Tang
episodes are airing so there's some
trolls saying that you know why are you
smiling all the time I'm just generally
happy being
there you're smiling even today that's
that's who you are so I'm generally like
you know whenever I'm in new places I'm
happy I'm excited
so sonan comes I make a quick
presentation so he explains two or three
things which is quite fascinating to me
I think first thing he mentions is that
if I were you I would go as full stack
as possible rather than being more and
more Marketplace which is that I do more
to control the experience um do you mean
own the hotel no not own the hotel but
basically sort of can you potenti
actually like delivery companies have a
service provider goes and delivers can
the front office manager be yours right
so that uh you can have slightly greater
control over the experience of course
the are economics of it which can be
complicated the second uh or or
beneficial depends second thing he says
is you're very early uh but I think um
you know if you are in this growth path
making sure that you continuously track
the consumer satisfaction Loop closure M
will be crucial before you ramp up or
down there will be times when the
consumer feedbacks will continue to be
positive and he said it will most
definitely happen and did happen to us
that the feedbacks will be great all all
through when you're growing and then
suddenly one day you'll see that you've
grown greater than usual the consumer
feedback is not showing that great
outcomes he said that will necessarily
happen when it does happen you should
consider pausing and the third he said
is that you are the CEO so you make the
decisions um you'll receive great ideas
from all our uh advisers but eventually
if your company does well or not You' be
responsible all three made complete
sense but you only appreciate like he
said tution fees you only appreciate
when you made enough mistakes you don't
listen or appreciate those just purely
by words very wise words though so
that's how the investment happened with
soft
Bank um and then of course the very
quickly nikesh moved on and I think ever
since after that Rajiv munish and that
sort of cohort uh became our primary
Partners from uh from soft Bank over the
years and our relationship was very much
you know we meet in a quarter review the
business go through and once in a year
uh you know you also get invited to go
present to sonan and I think the one
unique takeaway that I have personally
about sonan that I think most of the
people have not talked about is people
see sonan primarily as an investor right
Financial investor and so on I think
he's at his heart an entrepreneur first
and an investor second M and the depth
and the attention to detail that he has
his creativity and his sense of sort of
um coming up with new ideas are in my
view what makes him special in the first
place
insane insane curiously curious ability
curious without an ego that's a good way
to put it you've given me so much I'm
I'll tell you from my side I learned so
much from you guys right uh in so many
different facets some that are evident
some that are non-evident like the
father thing my father passed away like
just now 30 days 35 days ago so sorry to
hear no but your journey 1 month 3
months 6 months I was asking you six
years very interesting okay
so I'm going to put down success
parameters add to the previous two and
say admitting mistakes early very
important
curiosity extremely extremely important
probably something I resonate with the
most contrarian very nature of a startup
I think a company
begins with something contrarian
especially if you're starting young
Clarity of thought rigid particular all
three of you said
that with you Nuance I I would add in a
very toist
way likability and niceness is so
underrated in the world right now like a
lot of people I choose to work with I
choose to partner with I
think today I have the privilege and
it's also such an important metric to me
that I need to like hanging out with
them at the core they need to be nice
people so I think people undermine the
importance of how likable and nice you
are as a person I think it's incredibly
valuable as a
business all of you said again you with
standing outside guzzle stood outside a
toy store Manish was willing to bend his
back and go ask somebody something that
other people might not have no ego which
also came from you again incredible
always be selling even when they were
answering their questions you were
selling and plugging oo rooms I think
that again is incredibly important
uh delaying ratification indifference is
cool both of these again on top of the
list so what we're trying to like arrive
at today is whenever a young 21y old boy
or girl wants to know what makes startup
Founders people like yourself successful
they get generic they get hardw
workk they get sell in this particular
manner use the sales
strategy all of it which is taking away
from the core emotion of what is
actually working for you guys so intent
here was to ask you non-usual questions
get non-usual answers and hopefully help
that 21y old I'll run through all three
of your main things starting with yours
optimism aware of cyclicality continuing
from where we left off Serendipity is
again a very interesting one
right impostor complex is good a lot of
us seem to have it insecurity is good as
long as neither of these lead to
inaction but they lead to action right
yeah it can't that's very important it's
called good sense of
insecurity yeah yeah
creativity this is
again something that is often
overlooked you defined creativity in a
very nice manner
rewarding loyalty reprimanding
disloyalty very important true forgiving
but not forgetting yeah
confidence in how you look post 12 this
could come via playing a sport yoga
sleeping for 8 hours extremely important
cuz you confident about how you look and
how you feel about yourself you're
likely more easily confident about what
you're selling
Fair sleep holiday all of this comes
into the same
thing avoidant attachment type good for
startups bad for relationships overall
but good for starting a company I think
I'm like that like I have a
tendency I I fear sympathy in others
eyes for me I fear being vulnerable so
much that if I am going through
something I will hide it like something
bad happening in my life some bad event
I would rarely mention it yeah but
that's yeah it's bad but bad bad in
relationships very unhealthy but for a
company maybe it's to start a company I
don't know how that's translating but
that seems to be common to a lot of
people even even uh even with your
company is that is that that good it's
healthy if you're not emotionally
attached to the company no but when when
times get tough and I feel that I have
that emotional connect with my company
where I still I'll be like I will figure
this out but if I
am and for which I also end up being
vulnerable in front of my leadership
team being open about what's happening
and trying to figure it out all together
because I can't do it alone if I don't
have that I feel that how how do you
look at it actually very interesting
Nuance I feel like I get stoic about
things that are not working cuz I feel
like in life 10 things are not working
at the same time so I take that thing
which is not working and my avoidant
type puts it in a compartment and I come
back to it after I fix three four of the
things but for that second what works
for me is compartmentalizing it's very
like uh stoic
nihilistic in its
origin that seems to be a common trait
as
well and what made it even more
interesting is one is bootstrapped one
is a public company and one is a largely
funded company so we covered broad
spectrum what we think are the
prerequisites to be successful in a
startup I think Manish had something
else story very very important almost as
important as a product we your story
even if it is
embellished in the very beginning in a
manner that is most appealing to the
audience you're try trying to cater to
Fair pay attention to detail every
little detail perfume
music what else did you say the tiny
details the horizontal creative of the
perfume how it's going to come to life
not having the logo on the Indian V
sizes are 2 in higher than be rigid on
that as well yeah people are here to
change you
yeah another big big commonality between
everybody who's a successful
entrepreneur is take
risk risk taking ability seems to be one
par higher In This Crowd of successful
ones versus everybody else having 10
Crowes and taking a 37 cow loan leaving
home uh and
doing uh art which is the most
counterintuitive thing that anybody
would do Beyond a course in nit learning
to be a computer programming teacher
yeah multiple times uh going to New York
in your first year of marriage all by
myself all by yourself moved out of
chandigar the only other city was Delhi
yeah for Rees I can't even begin there's
so much like so much in terms of taking
risk outside of what a conformist
conventional normal 20-year-old boy of
your age would have done what this paper
misses out is once you incorporate or
try to inculcate some of this the
underlying differentiator between a and
b and c and d is luck at the very core
of it I think you have to come to term
every single entrepreneur has to come to
terms with that but you know what I feel
is the bigger challenge than going from
0er to one is finding the gumption in
you to reinvent yourself after the
ecosystem around you has built up your
ego into a bubble to come to terms with
the fact that you have become complacent
faster than the market tells you yeah
yeah I and that's how the incumbents
lead right yeah like Facebook's greatest
example is ditching the metav and then
flipping back and making Instagram the
heart of their business which is of
course now become into com back to
creativity look last one week like if
you look at the Facebook stock price
Facebook looks like nav bat and should
we should we add that surrounding
yourself by people who are able to
say Outsiders often who are able to say
to your face you're screwing up yeah I
think that's very very important I think
that's extremely important at the end of
every episode we do this one we doing
after a long time we've not put anything
out for two months
at the end of every
episode uh we pay forward a little bit
of the good luck we have gotten and we
fund uh someone young someone we were
talking to through this episode uh a 21
22 year old boy or girl so we'll all uh
commit a certain amount of money we'll
have a process where we open it up like
you got your teal Fellowship we'll try
to create our own Fellowship that's nice
and we'll get applications we'll share
all the applications with everyone here
and we arrive at who should get the
fellowship or the investment from all
four of us together perfect this process
will take a little bit of time like 15
20 days but we'll run it what if we call
it WTF Founders Fellowship yeah it's a
nice name have you done this before WTF
fund yeah yeah we do it at the end of
each episode we do something or the
other we did one for influencers we did
one we did we paid a couple of
Charities EV sector so how about we four
of us yeah we all give something small
like 10 lakhs each or 20 lakhs each to
four Founders at the end of it uh as a
grant yeah do you think works perfect
you guys are okay with that absolutely
should we do 20 lakhs each 20 lakhs each
charging and we'll we'll put like a like
a
Draft application that they can put out
and we'll all four of us review it
however we can find time and we can all
pick one each perfect yeah very nice
done super thank you guys hopefully one
of them will be a guest in your podcast
like zepto guys absolutely teal
Fellowship it could even be you could be
anyone of us yeah uh which we will help
support so I'll be very happy thank you
guys so much for coming and spending so
much time thank you for having us thank
you thank you thank you so much
Nik we have to do one the longest
podcast that I would ever show in my
life I think do you guys realize in in
our attempt to define the prerequisites
of a successful
entrepreneur that a 21y old can emulate
we've been speaking for 8 hours without
a real break really 8 yeah it's 4:00
a.m. what yeah I have to leave then I my
flight is at 5:15 oh god seriously say
really
really okay we definitely not getting
the HR you're not getting
the
